A Christmas tree: just one of life’s fleeting gloriesHow sad ex-Christmas trees all seem among the trash: more brown than green. Their needles gone, their branches bare, it seems so wrong. It seems unfair.We pick them out so carefully, rejecting flawed ones ruthlessly“Too big.” “Too small.” “Too thin.” “Too fat.” We make our choice, then just like thatIt’s Christmas.Then it’s New Year’s Day, and time to pack the “stuff” away.The emptied stockings get unhung. (No after-Christmas songs are sung.) Our front-door wreaths are all untied. Our outside lights are brought inside. Just one chore left. Un-merrily,we turn and swiftly strip the tree. The needles fall, a dry, brown rain, as ornaments and sugar canesare pulled from branches one by one. The star comes down.The job is done. The trees we’d carried home with pride are dragged and roughly tossed outside. The trees that brightened up our lives now wait for trash trucks to arrive.There should be some great lesson here, some moral that’s profound and clear.All Glory’s Fleeting? Life Is Death? Discarded trees teach that, I guess.Today, my $30 treegot hauled away.Truth dawned on me! The moral’s slim and superficial:“Next year we’re buying artificial.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who fights losingbattles with family traditions ... occasionally.)Micro-cooking in a macro wayOur friends said we would use the thing for dining in a hurry:“No pots or pans. Just pop food in: no fuss, no mess, no worry.A full-course meal in seconds! Zap! You’ll love your microwave.Just wait and see the fun you’ll have and all the time you’ll save.”We got the thing and plugged it in. It worked just like they said.We zapped leftover Chinese food and zap-thawed frozen bread.We micro-beamed some chicken legs and quick-cooked frozen peas,we popped some micro-popcorn while we studied recipes.Like children in a candy store, we stripped our freezer bare.Our stove and oven gathered dust. We lived on micro-fare.The timer’s bell chimed out all day and on into the night.We micro-snacked to satisfy our growing appetite.Our supermarket shopping list got longer every weekas menus grew more costly. (Micro-gluttony’s not cheap.)A microwave’s a nifty thing. It’s nice to have around.But there’s a heavy price you pay to hear that dinging sound.Our friends forgot to tell us.They forgot to warn us thata microwave makes more than meals. It also makes you fat!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who does situps while he waits for the microwave to ding ... occasionally.)     If Mom’s sick, chaos is quick to run wildDad’s home sick? He’s got the flu? The Earth spins on as ever.Let Mom get sick and stay in bed and chaos reigns, however.Nothing goes the way it should when Mom’s not feeling right:–	the cat’s not fed (or fed too much)–	the dog’s locked out all night–	alarms aren’t set, we oversleep (then race like Keystone Kopsto dress and eat and leave the house with unmatched pairs of socks)–	our laundry efforts fail, of course, (we never learned the art)–	our dinner menu’s What’s This Stuff? or Big Macs a la carte–	the kitchen, sacked by novice chefs, looks like a combat zone–	the music student goes to school (but not with his trombone)–	supplies of milk and juice run out. Our breakfast drink’s iced tea.“Where’s your gym suit?” “I don’t know.” “Where’d I leave my keys?”Without our Mom, we’re rudderless. We struggle through each day,just waiting for those magic words:“Mom says she feels OK.”And when she’s back “on duty”I will shout “Hooray!” then kneel to pray: “Bless Single Parents!I know now how they must feel.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who remembers which lunch bag DOESN’T get the peanut butter sandwich ... occasionally.)Modern horror: to be haunted by the ghosts of charges past(With apologies to Edgar Allan Poe.)       NCE, upon a season festive, while I pondered, grim and restive, over many a large and costly charge slip from the best department stores – while I sat there, tense and scowling suddenly I heard a howling,as of some strange beast a-prowling, prowling near my bedroom door. “It’s the stupid dog,” I muttered, “scratching at my bedroom door – only this and nothing more.”Ah, distinctly I remember it was early in December,and the catalogues and circulars were heaped upon the floor.My charge statement filled six pages, I had spent beyond my wages.I’d be paying bills for ages!– I’d charged presents by the score, charging gifts for friends and neighbors and for relatives galore. – Overcharged for evermore.And commercials they were showing on my TV that was glowingchilled me – filled me with reminders of more shopping trips in store.Thus, my head was pounding,beating, as I crossed the room, repeating: “It is just the dog entreatingto go out again, I’m sure.Howling, whining as she does each night to do her nightly chore. –This it is and nothing more.”Muttering, I got her leash out,put on shoes and sternly called out – “I am coming, dog! I swear sometimes, you’re such a stupid bore.”“Blasted dogs,” I thought, “who needs them? All we do is walk and feed them.Why on earth do people breed them?” “Cats are easier,” I swore.“Hold your horses, stupid, will you?” Then I opened wide the door. – Darkness there and nothing more.In the hall I stood there, peering, “Where’d she go?” I wondered, fearing that she might have left a presenton the steps or on the floor. But the silence was unbroken, and the dog had left no token,and the only words heard spoken were my whispers: “Here, Lenore!” As l whispered in the hall I heard my echo: “Here, Lenore!”-Merely this and nothing more.Back into my bedroom turning, with a stomach ulcer burning, soon again I heard that howling somewhat louder than before. “Hmm, I wonder if a cat ison the bedroom window lattice. I can’t figure what else that is.Better go (I said) explore.” Drawing up my fading courage, I went over to explore. –“Just the wind and nothing more?”Drawing back the drapes, I shuddered. “Who the heck are you?” I spluttered, as in stepped a smiling sales clerk from a large department store.In he came, no invitation. Not a word of explanation. And, like some reincarnation of a haughty emperor,down he sat upon the rocker near the TV by my door. –Perched, and sat, and nothing more.Then this orange-vested stranger made me laugh.There was no danger. He was grinning as he sat there.I began to laugh and roar. “I’m the victim of a trickster! A terrific prank! Hey, mister, tell me – honest – was sister this neat gag’s executor?Yes, my sister, I am certain, thought this gag up. I am sure.” –Quoth the sales clerk: “Go charge more!”And that sales clerk sitting lonely in my rocking chair would only keep repeating through the night the single phrase he’d said before. Like a record that is broken,just the same three words were spoken as I sat, my eyes wide open,too afraid to nap or snore! “You can’t keep this up forever,or your throat will get quite sore.” – Quoth the sales clerk: “Go charge more.”In the morning, weak, exhausted I said: “Pal, I’m getting frostedI can’t stand to hear that sales pitch. I can’t bear it any more!What charge limits I possess are all used up. I’m creditless!I’m a one-man fiscal mess who’s Visa-ed out and credit poor.I’ll be broke from now through summer! I can’t charge a thing!” I swore. –Quoth the sales clerk: “Go charge more.”And that sales clerk, never shifting, still is sitting, still is sittingin the rocker near the TVin my bedroom by the door.And his smile is gleamingas he sits there madly dreaming of indebted masses streaming through the aisles of his store.Heed my warning, Christmas shoppers, keep the sales clerk from your door. – Fight the urge to go charge more!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who attends Christmas Shoppers Anonymous meetings ... occasionally.)Love’s season is hormonalNews item: A University of Minnesota researcher who has studied hormone fluctuations claims that the human sex drive is most active in autumn, not spring.Springtime in Eden, and allGod’s creatures were tuned to love’s call. Eve came on to Adam.He said: “Not now, madam. I’m fishing. Perhaps in the fall.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wastes hourstrying to find rhymes for “testosterone” ... occasionally.)Childhood’s end: a symptom guide for every parentYou’ll know that your kids have grown up when they no longer jump when you count to ten.Your “little ones” are small no morewhen they lock the locks on the bathroom doors.You’ll know that your kids aren’t little tots when your bank won’t give them lollipops. Your kids have aged before your eyes when you and they share one shoe size.Their “small fry” days are over, dead, when you can not lug them up to bed.You’ll know the cosmic clock has ticked when they’re bored by all your “magic” tricks.You’ll hum time’s solemn requiemwhen you must borrow change from them.Your little tykes are memorieswhen they don’t help pick Christmas trees, or worst of all (this gives one pause),they don’t write lists for Santa Claus.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who remembers giving piggyback rides ... occasionally.)Clusters of clufler have only one place to goThere’s a drawer in our kitchen where all the “junk” goes:–	engraved wedding matchbooks and stray dominoes–	assorted Crayolas and small pencil stubs–	menus for take-outs (pizzas and subs)–	some odd lengths of string, stale Halloween candy–	a Coppertone bottle (still sticky and sandy)–	a rat’s nest of twist ties for plastic trash bags–	a growing collection of useless beach tags–	a screwdriver handle, an old pair of glasses–	an out-of-date schedule of Jazzercise classes–	one half of a yo-yo, a “lost” queen of spades–	one postcard; two coupons, three crumpled Bandaids–	some film for a camera. (Exposed? We’re not sure.)–	odd clamps and loose brackets. (Now what are they for?)–	small batteries no one’s prepared to throw out as long as their energy level’s in doubt ...The junk drawer’s a marvel, a bottomless pit.There’s always space left where some new junk will fit. I have a suspicion:The junk drawer’s alive.There’s something inside there that somehow survives by munching on Scotch tape, old pens, super glue.I hate to look in there. In your house, do you?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who feeds his junk drawer ... occasionally.)he Man of Steel becomes a wimp?News item: DC Comics plans to make Superman ‘more vulnerable, both physically and emotionally’ as the superhero approaches his 50th birthday. ‘The new Superman will be more human than super. He’s going to be less than perfect’ a DC spokesperson said.Great Caesar’s ghost! Will the Man of Steel have not-so-super vices?Will he smoke and drink and put on weight? Will he have a mid-life crisis?Will his posture slip? Will he start to swear? Will his jet-black hair turn gray?(Or even worse, if his hair falls out, will he buy a cheap toupee?)Will he have to jog to stay in shape? Will he join a health club, too?Will he start to visit singles bars and nibble on tofu?Will his socks have holes, his cape have stains? Will he owe the IRS?Will he have to go through therapy to learn to handle stress?Our baseball stars are snorting coke. Our leading men are gay.And soon we’ll have a Man of Steel with size nine feet of clay.Clark Kent, the super-Yuppie? Absurd and ludicrous.What good’s a super hero who’s a flawed as all of us?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a mild-mannered New Jersey writer whofinds rhymes for truth, justice and the American Way ... occasionally.)In Palm Beach,the good life knows no limitsNews item: In West Palm Beach, Fla., a 1967 Rolls- Royce worth $25,000 has been sunk in the Atlantic Ocean for use as an artificial reef.New Jersey builds its fishing reefs from old, discarded tires.In West Palm Beach they sniff at that. Their standards are much higher.It wouldn’t do, you understand, to park one’s fancy yachtabove a “low-brow” fishing reef. That’s declasse. (Somewhat.) “The very rich,” said Hemingway “are different from you and me.”In West Palm Beach that fact’s made plain a half-mile out to sea.The last laugh, though, will be on them:the West Palm Beach jet-setters.The fish they catch at Rolls-Royce Reef will not smell any better.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks affluence isa social disease ... occasionally.)Political wisdom:What you can’t see, doesn’t existThe councilmen thought it a terrible thingthat their city was stuck with an out-of-town queen. “An out-of-town queen?” the councilmen whined. “Whoever allowed that was out of his mind!” “Unseemly.” “Improper.” “A tragic mistake.”“This can’t be permitted.” “Our honor’s at stake.” The queen had been crowned. Her reign had begun. The councilmen muttered: “Can nothing be done?” They pondered the problem, debated, discussed it. The out-of-town queen made them angry. Disgusted. Then a councilman cried out. “I’ve got it!” he said. “So help me, I think there’s a thought in my head!” “A thought!” All the councilmen broke into cheers. “We haven’t had one of those things here in years!” The councilman stood up and outlined his scheme: “We’ll make it a crime for the queen to be seen.If no one can see her, she doesn’t exist.” (The councilman’s logic was hard to resist.) “We’ll put it in writing,” the councilman said,“Every citizen MUST wear a bag on his head.”The Bag Law was passed. It worked like a dream. The out-of-town queen could no longer be seen. Each person in town wore a bag on his head.They wore them to work and they wore them to bed. They wore them in summer, fall, winter and spring, then somebody noticed a marvelous thing.Because of the council’s enlightened decreethe Bag Law had made the whole town problem-free! No litter! No traffic! No crime could be seen!The problems had “vanished” along with the queen.And that’s why today if a stranger in townshould wonder out loud why the town seems run down or should happen to mention a problem he seesthey will ask him to leave or they’ll tell him: “Sir, please put this bag on your head. See our town as WE do.Now. Isn’t that better? Just look at that view!”(Some critics, of course, think the Bag Law is dumb. “It doesn’t solve problems at all. Not a one.”But the Bag Law idea keeps spreading around.Why, I’ve heard that they sometimes wear bags in your town.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who peeks through a small hole in his bag ... occasionally.)One sure sign a boy has grownWe thought our son was grown up when he didn’t need a nap. But thenwe guessed our son had truly grown when he could play a real trombone.We figured he had grown the day he put his Lego sets away.Of course, the proof he’d grown occurred the day we heard him use “that” word.(A word he now knows not to utter when he’s in striking range of mother.) He’d grown, we knew with certainty, when he rejected hugs from me.We had no doubts he’d grown up, though, this morning when he came (tip-toe)into our room and prowled around. His big feet moved without a sound. He whispered as he opened drawers:“I need brown socks, Dad.Where are yours?”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who knows where to look for his missing ties and socks ... occasionally.)    De$cit jumps from the thombalooms to the skoombowsNews item: The national debt limit may have to increased to $2 trillion.Two trillion dollars?A mind-numbing number. Each time I repeat it,my mind just gets number.A long string of zeroes (a dozen in fact).I can’t comprehend it, it’s all too abstract.“A trillion” means nothing, it almost sounds small.“A trillion” sounds timid; not massive at all.The problem’s our language.What we have to dois rename big numbers. Let’s try out a few:A “million” is boring. Let’s use ZUMM instead.A “zumm” sounds impressive. It sticks in your head.Instead of a “billion”let’s say THOMBALOOM. That sounds like a number as big as the moon.A “trillion”? Forget it. Too wimpy, too meek.Let’s call it a SKOOMBOW when we write or speak.“A rose is a rose,”I suppose you might say. “And numbers too big can’t be grasped anyway.”Perhaps. But imaginehow great it would sound if all those big spenders tossed my words around:“The Pentagon’s asking for six thombaloom.”“The White House wants two zumm to paint the Rose Room.The national debt will exceed three skoombow.”It still makes no sense.But it sounds right. Somehow.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who dreams about winning a zumm in the state lottery ... occasionally.)Eating branches off family treeNews item: A spokesman for the manufacturer of Vim bread admits that his company’s high-fiber product contains wood pulp, but says there’s nothing wrong with that. “A tree is a vegetable like an asparagus stalk,” the spokesman explains.Your kids won’t touch spinach or eggplant or beans?Or old-fashioned veggies like carrots and peas?You might try a souffle of nice evergreens.Or some slivers of dogwood:“Finish your trees!”Does the mention of cabbage draw whimpers and groans?Do the words “brussels sprouts” make your young diners blanch?You might want to heat up a batch of pine cones.Or some nice, chewy oak:“Want dessert? Eat your branch.”Trees are much cheaper than lettuce, it’s true.But not as nutritious or tasty. So, please!Don’t tell Ronald Reagan. You know what he’d do.He’d change the school menus:“Let them eat trees!”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who nibbles on No. 2 pencils ... occasionally.)Sinatra’s back! (Well, sort of)News item: Frank Sinatra, who boycotted New Jersey because of a controversy involving his behavior at a blackjack table, returns to Atlantic City this month to perform for a casino’s high rollers.Earthquakes, AIDS and hurricanes:our world’s in disarray.But Frankie’s coming back again. Hey! Everything’s OK!Teacher strikes and oil spills afflict our hemisphere.But Frankie’s in the Garden State, so what have we to fear?Apartheid and trade deficits. A chorus of bad news.But soon New Jersey gets to see Sinatra’s baby blues!Oh, joy! Oh, thank our lucky stars! The boycott’s almost through!New Jersey’s not Sinatra-less! DOOBY-DOOBY-DO!What’s that? You say us common folks won’t get to hear him sing?So what. He’s in New Jersey, right? You can’t have everything!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who knows how to put things in perspective ... occasionally.)    Ready to rough it, they waited in vain for nasty hurricaneAll of our windows were crisscrossed with tape, Our bags were all packed (if we had to escape.) The bathtub was filled (in event of a drought.) Our contingency plans had left nothing out.Canned goods and candles? We’d bought out the store. We might have to rough it for weeks. Maybe more.We had matches and flashlights, and gas lanterns, too. We were ready for anything Nature might do.On TV, the warnings grew grim. Ominous. The battle was looming! The Storm vs. Us. It ripped up past Norfolk, headed this way.It rattled Rehoboth and churned toward Cape May.The rain fell in torrents, the wind bent the trees. We counted our blessings and fresh batteries.We braced in our shelter. “IT’S COMING! THE EYE!” Then Gloria turned off. And whispered: “Goodbye.”Oh, well.We’d survived.We proved we were tough. But now, what the heck do we do with this stuff?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who has canned chicken, baked beans and wheat crackers for breakfast ... occasionally.)       Justice for all (including folks short on cash)News item: The Galveston, Texas, city jail will soon accept Mastercard and Visa credit cards for fines or bail payments.“Don’t break the law,” our teachers warned. “Crime doesn’t pay,” they said.Well, they were right. In Texas now they charge for crimes, instead.If “charge-a-crime” plans worry you, it could get worse, I fear.I’ll bet we’ll see crime layaways:“Rob now, serve time next year!”Or “Two-for-one” crime special deals:“Two guilty pleas/one fine!”Or coupons: “Inmates! Show this ad and serve one-third less time!”Preposterous? Why, not at all. It’s quite American.Where else would justice be dispensed on the installment plan?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks the quality of mercy is over-strained ... occasionally.)hey’re playing a curious tune: “D&D” silenceMy sons are hooked on “D&D” and I don’t understand it.Their talk is full of “magic spells,” of “lizard men” and “bandits.”They plot adventures, step by step, and speak in small, hushed tones,Obsessed.They don’t hear doorbells ring or answer telephones.They rarely want to play outside. They never watch TV.Their bikes and skateboards gather dust while they play “D&D.”“Sprites” and “elves” and “insect swarms” are all they think about.They plot behind closed bedroom doors, and lock the real world out.My wife insists it’s “just” a game, a “harmless fantasy.”But when I hear them whispering it somehow ... worries me.They never argue when they play. They never yell or fight.They never used to play like this. Something here’s not right.Imagination’s potent stuff, psychiatrists agree.I wonder. Are they practicing to cast strange spells on me?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who keeps his Cloak of Invisibility and his Rod of Cancellation handy ... occasionally.)One sure-$re test of true parenthood: traveling the land with kids in towA family trip’s for masochistswho love the pain such trips inflict:punches, shouts and pinches, screams; spilled soda cups and dropped icecreams; the backseat wars: “Move over!” “Quit it!” You wonder how the settlers did it!By Pittsburgh I’d have gone insane if I were in a wagon trainwith all my kids and pets aboard,A three-month trip with them? Good lord! No comic books? No tape cassettes?No Burger Kings or luncheonettes? A long, slow trip un-air conditioned? I’d rather face the Inquisition.If we’d been pioneers, I betthe West would be unsettled yet.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is New Jersey writer who cheats at license plate bingo ... occasionally)Sounds of silence haunt a dadOur son’s not home.We cannot sleep. The “empty nest” yawns wide and deep. His room is quiet. Neat and clean.No heaps of clothes and magazines. No toys and games in disarray.Last week it didn’t look this way.Last week his room was one vast mess, and we complained, I must confess.Last week we nagged him by the hour:“Clean your room!” “Eat!” “Take your shower!” “Take the trash out!” “Help your mother!”And now he’s gone. One son remains. We hear clocks tick. A silence reigns. The house feels hollow, like a tomb.And every time we pass his room we stop to stare in wistfully:a family with a vacancy.Oh, well. Just two more weeks to go, and then our summer camper’s home again!A painful business, parenthood. (Imagine when he leaves for good!)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks parents should get used to silence ... occasionally.)Baseball’s best only knew one kind of strikeThe greats of the pastwould be shocked and aghastif they heard of their sport’s looming strike. William Dickey, John Mize,all those Hall of Fame guyswould declare it was unsportsmanlike.The game’s finest players were not fan-betrayers.They played for the cheers and the sport. When the ump yelled: “Play Ball!”They would give it their all,And not save their best moves for court. Now tell me the truth:would George Herman Ruthleave a dugout for some picket line?Would Tyrus R. Cobb ever walk off the jobto carry a cardboard STRIKE sign?Would Hal (Pee Wee) Reese ever take off his cleatsand strike while his fans boo and howl? Cy Young would deplore itMel Ott would abhor it.They’d ALL say Strike II is a foul.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders what Abner Doubleday would think about pension contributions ... occasionally.)he tale of a runaway cat that just never came backThe cat was gone. She’d “disappeared.” But no one thought it strange or weird. “No cause for worry. She’ll be backin time for supper or a late-night snack.” She’d strayed away from home before, and always turned up at the doora trifle sheepish, tired and beat,with eyes that asked: “What’s left to eat?” A whole day passed. No cat returned.By now, of course, we were concerned. We searched the streets relentlessly, inspecting every bush and tree.For three full weeks our search went on. Hope changed to facts.The cat was gone. (We didn’t voice our darkest fears:wild dogs, steel traps, sick kids with spears.) The cat was gone. For good, perhaps.She’d left us here with empty laps. Her plastic dish sits by the sink,a kind of magic charm, I think.It’s there for when the cat comes back (in time for supper or a late-night snack.) Scratching at our kitchen door.Waiting as she’s done before.A trifle sheepish, tired and beat,with eyes that ask: “What’s left to eat?”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks he hears scratching sounds in the middle of the night ... occasionally.) Miss New Jersey: commuter queen?News item: The father of the first runner-up in this year’s Miss New Jersey pageant thinks the contest winner, a Pennsylvania resident, should be disqualified. Pageant officials insist the winner was eligible to enter the pageant because she wasenrolled in a two-week summer course at Trenton State College.Who should be queen? I do not know. She should be from New Jersey, though.We should not have to coronatea queen who comes from out-of-state.The queen of England’s not from Spain and Holland’s queen is not a Dane.The pageant may be meaningless (a cattle show in fancy dress),but Miss New Jersey should not be a Pennsylvania refugee.As choices go, this one’s the poorest:New Jersey’s queen’s another tourist!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who suffers from acute xenophobia ... occasionally.)hey’ll practice their politics domesticallyNews item: Arthur Schmidt, the deputy mayor of Pequannock, NJ. (pop. 13,800) has asked Betty Cass to marry him, and Cass, the mayor ofPequannock, has accepted. Both Schmidt and Cass are Republicans.Arthur Schmidt of Pequannock asked Betty Cass to cast her lotwith his.To be his loving, blushing bride. “I’d love to,” Betty Cass replied.Wife and husband. She and he. the mayor and her deputy.Bedfellows strange are sometimes bred by politics, I’ve heard it said.But not Ms. Cass and Mr. Schmidt. Their union is a perfect fit.Imagine what their life might be if they weren’t wed politically.Ms. Cass, I’ll bet, would drop Schmidt flat if he were (gasp!) a Democrat.In Pequannock and Pequannix, love conquers all but politics.(J.D. Evan, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders why Pequannock needs a deputy mayor ... occasionally.)Words of wisdom on useless teethCreationists (who don’t agreethat man evolved from chimpanzee) could win more converts to their cause if they would ponder human jaws.Wisdom teeth, it seems to me, expose Chuck Darwin’s fallacy. In Darwin’s view, you may recall,all things that swim, walk, fly or crawl must change in order to surviveand only keep what helps them thrive.So ask an evolutionistwhy human wisdom teeth exist. They serve no purpose I can see. They only bring us misery.They make our heads throb when we eat. Genetically, they’re obsolete.If we’d evolved, I’m certain they would not be in our heads today.If I were some ancestral apewho had a chance to change man’s shape I know the changes I’d bequeath:“Keep the tail, but drop those teeth!”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who helps his wife recover from wisdom tooth extractions ... occasionally.)