One if by land, two if by sea, three to get madNews item: Despite opposition by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority is still seeking permission to dump 100 tons of Boston Harbor sludge a day off the New Jersey coast.IOO tons of sludge a day we do not need or want.Air freight it to Connecticut or truck it to Vermont.Export it up to Canada (they’ll cover it with snow.)Or shuffle it in boxcars to your neighbor, Buffalo.Rhode Island, still the smallest state,I’m sure would not complain if Boston helped it grow a bit.And then there’s always Maine ...Our ocean’s not a dumping ground. Don’t ship your sludge down here. We do not want our beaches filled with Boston “souvenirs.”It’s bad enough our governor sounds like he’s from Cape Cod.We do not need your gahbidge, Bahstin. Foul your own backyahd!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders if it’s time for another Boston Tea Party ... occasionally.)Cynic’s prayer:‘World without lobbyists, amen’News item: Responding to pressure from convenience store owners and the barbecue industry, Congress has approved changes in daylight-saving time laws. If the president agrees, DST will now start on the first Sunday in April, creating an additional hour of daylight for three weeks in April.Congress, pushed and prodded, swerved, thinks every interest can be served.I’m glad He didn’t have to try to change His plans to satisfy some special-interest lobbyistswho stopped around with laundry lists of things they’d like to change a bit (adjustments for their benefit).–	a closer moon, a nearer starfor NASA-types: “The earth’s too far from every other-worldly place.You’ll lock us out of outer space!”–	from Realtors, some anguished pleas:“We’d rather there were just THREE seas. If you could change what you had planned, we’d like less water, not less land.”–	from engineers, a small request:“A few less mountains in the West?And, if you could, no earthquake zones where we’ll be building roads and homes?”–	a ban on bugs. “They’ll ruin our fun! They’ll breed and we’ll be overrun with buzzing, biting, stinging pests!Just strike them from your manifests.”If pre-Creation lobbyistshad badgered Him, what now exists would doubtless be a Perfect ... mess. The point I want to make, I guess,is: Special interest bills are fine unless your interest isn’t mine. Three extra weeks of DST?No thanks.What is, is fine with me.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who likes things just the way they are ... occasionally.)Tuxedo marksa beginning and an endA son in a tux is a sobering sight.His bearing is ... stately, his manner polite.His hair neatly combed, not a strand out of place; an uncommon vision of style and grace.A diplomat’s smile; a millionaire’s poise; companion to royalty: one of the boys.In satin-striped trousers (not cutoffs or jeans) he studies the mirror. He postures and preens.A brother is speechless; a mother (near tears) remembers the wardrobes of earlier years:the diapers and playsuits, pajamas with feet, the T-shirts with faces from Sesame Street.A father stands silent.The chief of the clan must give his approval before the young man can let the world see him: A custom, a rite as ancient as fire is played out tonight.The candidate’s checked from his head to his feet. A bow tie’s adjusted.The rite is complete.Tomorrow’s arrived, and yesterday’s fled.The tux will go back, but the clock moves ahead.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who lets his son borrowhis cufflinks ... occasionally.)Cleanliness is often next to impossibleThere comes a time when parents know their children’s junk has got to go.“Your room’s a mess,” Mom said. “Go see.”I checked it out. Looked fine to me:–	a baseball glove–	an unmade bed–	a comic book that’s halfway read–	a wad of gum stuck on my wall–	an uninflated basketball–	some jacks and dice–	a sock or two–	a math report–	a book that’s due–	a fishing pole–	some dirty clothes–	my robot men–	my G.I. Joes–	some yellow pencils chopped in two–	a dried up jar of Elmer’s glue.I straightened up the best I could.Mom checked it out and said: “Looks good.”Last night, a 9 on a scale of IO. Today’s it’s back to 3 again.(D.A. Evans, a pseudonym, is the son of J.D. Evans, a southern New Jersey writer whose work usually appears on this page.Tom O’Connell Jr., is the son of staff artist Tom O'Connell. Both boys fill in for their dads on Father’s Day ... occasionally.)Hope blossomsas a withered plant bloomsWhen our first son was born I bought a potted plant, a little one.I went to see my wife and brought it to her room.The first-born son is I3 now. Like him, the planthas had its “ups” as well as “downs.” Some years it’s been luxuriant.In other years, green turned to brown. The plant, though, grew. It never died (despite my careless husbandry).Its roots went deep. A source of pride:I took it in to work with me. Last month, a tragic accident:An unknown someone tipped the pot. I’m sure, of course, they never meant to knock it over. (Let’s hope not.)I came to work and found a massof withered leaves and broken stems,its main stalk snapped, the coup de grace. I hauled it to the dumpster, thenI noticed one small spot of green:a tiny bud. A sign of life.“The greenest thing I’ve ever seen. It almost glowed,” I told my wife.The twice-born plant is doing well. Its home is now a coffee cup.It’s sprung another bud as well!(Last month a “down”; this week an “up.”) The moral? When life throws a curve, and helplessness is diagnosed,hope’s there, a power in reserve.It shows up when it’s needed most.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who now talks to his plants ... occasionally.)‘Mystery’ cat on the prowl for a nameThe cat came uninvited. He appeared: a thing of mystery. battle-weary veteranwho bore the marks of where he’d been:–	a tick-filled coat, a missing claw–	some fur-less patches near his jaw–	one half-closed eye, two chewed-up ears–	a host of scratches (souvenirs of mortal combats he’d been in.) My wife, of course, “adopted” him.She fed and washed him, groomed his fur. He paid her back: a sort of purr.The dog and “other” cat were kept in separate rooms The new cat slept the sleep of pampered royalty.His eyes, though, watched us, warily.I’m sure he heard us all discussa choice of names. (I favored “Gus.”My wife liked “George.” Our oldest son thought “Agamemnon” might be fun.Our youngest boy liked “Adrick” best.) He watched, our uninvited guest,and saw the writing on the wall. He left to answer Nature’s call and kept on going, gratefully.Revived, but still unnamed and free. The mystery cat may chance to pay a visit to your door one day.And if he lets you take him in,you might try “Tom” or “Harlequin.” His name’s a secret still unguessed. Good luck. (And give him all our best.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who misses “Gus” ... occasionally.)Residents fear return of the dreaded herdsEach year, the migratory herds returned in greater numbers.Thunderingdown trails where silence once had reigned. The natives held their breaths, concerned, and peered through windows, wondering how much their patience might be strained before the herds reversed their courseand wandered home, their frenzies spent. The herds could not be turned away.An ancient urge, a primal force propelled them. No impedimentwould slow them down or change their course.A nervous stillness filled the air. The natives waited, anxiously,and looked for signs they’d learned to read that meant the herds would soon be there. A car horn blared.Then two.Then three!The cry went up: “They’re here!” “Stampede!”The herds stormed in: a surging tide of winter-battered refugees.Some natives cheered, though others swore and shook their fists or loudly cried:“Get out of here you &*#@ shoobies!!” Tourists had returned once more.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who gives accurate directions to out-of-state motorists ... occasionally.)Tuning upcould be key to toning upNews item: An American Lung Association study has found that professional opera singers are reaping the benefits of aerobic singing. According to the study, singers maintain the circulation, and breathing,of well-conditioned athletes by deep abdominal breathing.At last! A painless exercise designed for lazy types (like me) who’d rather sing and harmonize than do themselves some injury.Instead of jogging in the rainor lifting weights (a mindless chore), I’ll sing some sad (but loud) refrain from Tosca or Il Trovotore!No dogs to dodge, no sweaty gyms.I’ll hit the shower in my house and belt out operatic hymnsby Mozart or by Richard Strauss! It may not work, though, I’ll admit. I sing off-key. Not only that,if opera-singing keeps one fit,how come most opera stars are fat?(J.D.Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who sings duets with hisdog when a fire siren sounds ... occasionally.)A good samaritan takes time to save a slower travelerNews item: A majority of conservationists polled by International Wildlife magazine say they believe between 10,000 and 1 million species of plants and animals face extinction by the end of the century.While driving in to work today I passed a hero on the way.No crowds were there, no brass bands played; no TV crews, no big parade.I saw the whole, brief episode:His van was stopped along the road, and there he stood – as cars flew by – a burly-looking sort of guywho held a turtle in his hands Now every schoolboy understands that turtles rarely win a racewith cars.They walk a measured pace that makes their migratory strolls disasters if a Ford or Rollsshould intersect their chosen path. (I’m sure you’ve seen the aftermath of such encounters near the bay.)I passed no shattered shell today because a man of conscience paused to right a wrong his road had caused. And when he’d set the turtle free,a million species cheered.Through me.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders what our descendants will think of us ... occasionally.)Taxpayer’s blues:Is this embassy really necessary?News item: The Reagan administration wantsto build a $33.5 million embassy in Belize, an underdeveloped Central American country with a population of 160,000.I do not know where Belize is, or how one should pronounce it. I do not know if it’s inland,or if a sea surrounds it.I do not know what flag they fly, or what they do for sport.I do not know (nor can I guess) what products they export.I’ve never heard their anthem sung (presuming one exists.)I don’t know if they lean to Marx or loathe all communists.Perhaps it’s just like Brigadoon:a temporary placethat comes and goes each hundred years and doesn’t leave a trace.Tomorrow it could disappear:a time/space mystery.With that in mind, perhaps we ought to rent an embassy.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who pays his taxes cheerfully ... occasionally.)he Killer’s never met his furry match.While we’re asleep,The Killer stalks from tree to tree behind the house. The scourge of Pineview Court is loose! Alert each mole, warn every mouse!The Killer moves with measured step. (He waits for clouds to block the moon.)The Killer hunts for furry things who hide too late or run too soon.His ears are tuned to every leaf and each small twig in his domain; a flawless map of every pathis stored within his fevered brain.The night is long, and he’s alone, the wooded field is dark and deep, but there is duty to fulfilland family honor to upkeep.A stone’s disturbed. A twig is brushed. His claws extend: a weapons check.A shadow moves.The chase is brief. He snares his victim by the neck.The Killer’s proud of his success and lays his “trophies” at our door. Each day we drop them in the trash;each night he goes and gets us more.If mole-men sent to ravage earth should land their spaceships in my yard, the neighborhood won’t fear a thing:The Killer’s out there. Standing guard.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who collects corpses in the morning ... occasionally.) Hits and misses on the diamond strike him #neJacob B. can’t slide too well (he goes right past the base)and Arthur R. still ducks when any ball comes near his face.Eddie D. still swings the bat too soon (or else too late) and Kevin C. still starts to run to third base from home plate.The pitcher, Peter D., throws strikes (with luck) two times in ten.The shortstop, Josh McC., forgets to tag base now and then.They’ll never make a double play, they may not score a run,but they show up and play their best, each eager, awkward one.They may not make each “easy” out, or catch each “easy” fly,but they’re all All-Stars in my book. They try, at least.They try.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who shouts “Addaway to swing” ... occasionally.)Even Noah could have drowned in red tape ...News item: The Army’s new ‘Hummer’ vehicle (which replaces the old, reliable jeep) has a problem. A device required by the Pentagon that is supposed to enable the Hummer to run at least 30 miles with two flat tires tends to make tires go flat.The best laid plans, through bureaucrats, will often go astray.If Noah’d had to deal with them it might have gone this way:“Noah, you can’t launch your ark. We cannot let you sail.Your ventilation’s under code; the air below’s too stale.“The EPA has checked your plans, and, frankly, they’re appalled.Your waste disposal system, Noah, MUST be overhauled.“The Health Department folks insist your cargo hold’s too small;they think each creature you collect should have a separate stall.“The Building Code inspectors are unhappy with your craft.They want the bow much higher and more life preservers aft.“The Risk Assessment Agency has ruled you aren’t insured sufficiently to cover allthe beasts you’ve brought aboard.“The CAFRA team will stop around to re-inspect your pier.They want to see the title search you didn’t have last year.“What else ... Oh, yes.The Labor people say you can’t embarkuntil they’ve counted all the votes to unionize your ark.“I’ll be around again next week to check that anchor chain.So long for now. Boy, feel that wind! I’ll bet we get some rain.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders what Dante would have done with bureaucrats ... occasionally.)Fireflies in soda? It’s an idea that’s befler off ignoredNews item: Firefly tails are being used in a new process that measures the purity of soft drinks. The firefly-based testing system is now in operation at 26 bottling plants. When a soft drink containing microscopic contamination is tested, light-releasing cells in the powdered firefly tails glow faintly.The firefly’s lightis a marvelous sight.It brightens our lives with its glow.But don’t say my drink’s checked by bugs, ‘cause I think(just between us) I’d rather not know.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders if THAT’S what they mean by “light” drinks ... occasionally.)He has a soft spot for his software ...The compu-nut was once like you:He laughed, he loved, he tasted life. He took his kids on fishing trips,and brought home flowers for his wife.But when he bought his first PC, his life transformed. Dramatically.He didn’t want to watch TV or go and see the Phillies play. His hi-fi set collected dust;he packed his fishing poles away.The compu-nut was booked on bits, on RAM and ROM and floppy disks.His PC hummed all night and day;his modem made his phone bills soar.No matter how much memory his PC had, he wanted MORE.The seasons turned; he didn’t care. His eyes grew glazed: a compu-stare.He programmed morning, noon and night He rarely ate or exercised.“He speaks in FORTRAN!” cried his wife. His doctors said they weren’t surprised:“It’s very common in cases like these. He has, alas, a terminal disease.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who inputs ... occasionally.)Halley’s tale will grow longer as time passesYawning and freezing, we stood in the dark where the Pine Barrens stop at the sea,our skeptical children (“It’s too cloudy, Dad”), their flu-stricken mother, and me.Far from our beds at a quarter past four, not a bird or a car would we hearas we shivered together and looked to the south where the comet (they said) would appear.A once-in-a-lifetime event was at hand. “Is that it? No, wait.That’s a star.”My children, the skeptics, abandoned the search. “Its cold, Dad.We’ll wait in the car,”At 4:22 I was ready to quit:“Forget it. Let’s go back to bed.”My wife didn’t move, though. She stared into space. “I think ...Yes! I’ve found it!” she said.I looked where she pointed.The comet was there, its tail just as wide as my thumb.We watched till it faded, a victim of dawn. Our fingers and noses were numb.As spectacles go, it was minor league stuff. The kids weren’t impressed, nor were we. But seeing the comet’s a way to bridge time, like carving your name in a tree.When Halley’s returns – as it must, as it will –to drag its bright tail through the sky perhaps an old man will have reason to smile when he thinks of a time that’s gone by:“When I was a child, we waited ALL NIGHT where the Pine Barrens stopped at the seaand watched Halley’s Comet – a glorious sight –my parents, my brother, and me.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who carves his initials in the sky ... occasionally.)Old comic-book heroes never die; they become super senior citizensNews item: A new Batman has hit the bookstores: a cynical, 50-year-old version of the superhero who lashes out at the disintegration of law and order inGotham City. The ‘Dark Knight’ begins with Batman drinking heavily. He’s not a young man any longer; he’s not sure of his physical abilities, and a night of crime fighting leaves him aching all over.Where will gray-haired superheroes go when they retire?What will they do when they hang up their colorful attire?Is there a home in Florida that’s just designed for them? A super-quiet, crime-free place for aging super men?Will they play rounds of super-golf and talk of days gone bywhen they could leap tall buildings and make helpless women sigh?Will they exchange fat scrapbooks filled with tales of super-featsthat they performed in younger days (before their knee-joints creaked)?Will they be guests of honor at Salute Old Hero roastswhere they recall their glory days and tell old hero jokes?Will Batman wear a hearing aid? Will Robin wear thick glasses? Will Aquarman and Spiderman sign up for mah-jongg classes?Will children giggle on the street:“Boy, who are those weird guys?” One super-villain gets away.Time can’t be caught. It flies.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders if The Incredible Hulk will be able to survive on Social Security ... occasionally.)Popsicle fans get short end of stickNews item: The New Jersey manufacturer of twin- stick Popsicles says it’s eliminating one of the sticks to please mothers. ‘Mothers, who are the primary purchasers, have been very dissatisfied with the inconvenience and messiness of the twin-stick size,’ said a spokesman for the manufacturer. In addition, the new Popsicles will be 1 3/4 ounces as opposed to the current 2 to 3 ounces because research shows the size is ‘more in keeping with the amount and shape mothers want to give to their kids,’ the spokesman said. Twin-stick Popsicles were created during the Depression to allow children to share the treat with a friend.An angry, open letter to the folks at Popsicle, Inc.: “Dear Sirs, please be advised that weconsumers (sometimes) think.We’re seldom fooled by phony claims (for long, at any rate).We keep our eyes on prices, and keep track of size and weight.We’re loyal to those companies that treat us with respect,and aren’t as blind or gullible as you, perhaps, suspect.Your one-stick, lightweight popsicle offends us to the core.We’re mad as you-know-what, and we won’t take it any more!You’ll make it hard for kids to share a summer treat with brothers.You’ll save on sticks and save on weight, then blame it all on mothers!It will not work.We will not fall for such a shameless trick.Don’t tamper with traditions, please. Put back that other stick!”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who organizes consumer boycotts ... occasionally.)Winter blues (almost) claim another victimSpring! You’d better get here quick! I’m Winter-ed out. I’m Winter-sick.I cannot take another dayof sunless skies, all bleak and gray.I hate the sight of leafless trees,I hate cold winds that make me freeze. I cannot bear to see more snow. (Thank God this isn’t Buffalo!)I long to see a crocus bloomand hear birds sing outside my room.I want to watch the Phillies play and pack my Winter coats away.Sweet Spring! Come soon! I miss you badly. I’ll turn my downhill skis in. Gladly!I can not wait to jog in shortsor play on outdoor tennis courts.And that’s not all.There’s work to do! My yard’s a mess. My car is, too.My list of chores goes on and on, and I can’t start ‘till Winter’s gone.Painting, planting, washing, waxing.(Hmmm. Just remembered: Spring is taxing.) On second thought, Spring, take your time. I’ve reconsidered.Winter’s fine.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who likes the seasonhe finds himself in ... occasionally.)Is sex overrated? Are college kids studying too hard?News item: 30 California State University students who claim that sex is too demanding, too overrated and too consuming have formed an Anti-Sex League on campus. “Sex is a waste of time, a waste of effort, a waste of calories, a waste of affection.	It’s justnot worth everything people think it’s cracked up to be,” one League member explained.Adam, clearly mystified, was told the A-S.L.thought sex was overrated. Said Adam: “Sex is swell!“It sure beats naming insects, or wading through the slime to inventory species.Now,THAT’S a waste of time!“It’s much more fun than making bowls from squishy bits of clay,or playing cards with snakes who cheat. Try THAT day after day!“Demanding? I don’t think it is. What’s tough is climbing trees!A drain? Try catching fish by hand! Boy,THAT burns calories!“Sure, sex creates some problems, there is no doubt about it.But (speaking primogenitally)where would you be WITHOUT it?”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who worries about today’s college students	occasionally.)Business people touch their bases when they face each other’s facesBusiness people do not “meet” when they sit face-to-face.They do not “meet” with anyone, they call it “touching base.”Business people never “check.” They “re-evaluate.”They do not “speak” or “write” or “call.” They say: “communicate.”Business people will not “plan.” Instead, they “strategize.”They never make “decisions.” They would rather “finalize.”Business people speak in tongues, a language all their own.They “re-adjust their time-frames” when there’s something to “postpone.”Business people speak in code. It’s English in disguise.I don’t know why I hate it so. It’s hard to verbalize.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who tries to maximize his implementation of language vocabulary-wise ... occasionally.)Unf?lle? h?les in cr?ssword? get him d?wnI’ve captured gnus and wombats on the veld and in the lea.I’ve stalked the wily caracal. I’ve sailed the Zuyder Zee.I’ve dined on cask and egret eggs. I’ve nibbled lumpfish stew.I know what an acanthus is (and how to spell it, too.)I’ve studied ancient pictographs, I’ve pondered Finnish runes, I’ve used my Moorish astrolabe to pinpoint distant moons.But all my work’s for nothing now. I’m stuck on 8 across.I do not know a synonym (that fits) for albatross.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who completes the Sunday Press crossword puzzle without peeking at the solution ... occasionally.)he challenge and the dream ...A dryness burns within us that has never been relieved, a thirstiness that rages in us all:We can not bear not knowing where uncharted paths may lead. We press on though we stumble, though we fall.Every mountain, every ocean tries to block us, but they fail. Uncertainties and fears we leave behind.In our footprints in the dust the children follow in our trail to take the lead, to tell us what they find.This expedition’s ancient. It’s the record of our race. It started without language, without fire.It has taken us from mud-pits to the first thin edge of space. It leads us ever-forward, ever-higher.Will it ever stop, you wonder? Not while questions still remain. It proceeds despite despair or tragedy.It’s a journey filled with triumph and a voyage filled with pain. A blessing and a curse: our destiny.Man is born to dream and wonder, born to seek and dare great things. We can not stop or turn our dreams away.Comets beckon and we follow on our poor but eager wings. The challengers who lead us point the way.Poised at the edge of grief and doubt, we pause.Then start again. The universe is waiting; the thirstiness remains.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer.)Halley’s comet:Was it really worth the wait?News item: Halley’s comet has started its journey around the far side of the sun and has all but dropped out of sight. When it reappears in March, it will be visible about an hour before sunrise but only in very dark areas with an unobstructed view of the horizon.Sir Edmond, I need glasses, or your comet’s awfully small.I search the skies at dawn and dusk but cannot see the thing at all!My son saved up – a hundred bucks –and bought a telescope,but does it help us spot the thing? You guessed it, Edmond: Nope.We’ve looked at every glowing bit of interspatial dust.Your comet is invisible. It’s all a cosmic bust.Kohoutek should have tipped me off: Astronomers don’t know.They overrate, exaggerate each cometary glow.But this one really bums me out. I’ve waited 4O years!I’d better see the thing – just once –before it disappears.My mother wasn’t even born last time it paid a visit.And I’ll be gone next time around, so where the ... heaven is it?!!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who remembers to take the lens cap off his son’s telescope ... occasionally.)Some pets eat befler than their mastersNews item: Manufacturers of “gourmet” pet foods say their sales are increasing 50 to 70 percenteach year. Among the products now offered for discriminating pets are frozen lamb and rice loaf and “Haute Feline” cat nibbles.No way I’ll pay for gourmet meals. My dog gets plain, old kibble.A pet’s a pet. I draw the line. My cat gets no “Haute Nibbles.”I love my pets, don’t get me wrong. They comfort and protect me.They also claw my furniture. Their fleas and ticks infect me.They shed their hair on everything and answer nature’s callprecisely where my bare feet step along the upstairs hail.They do not lift a paw to help with any household chores.They treat me like an employee who’s there to open doors:I open doors to let them out. I wait to let them in.They disappear for hours but don’t tell me where they’ve been. Gourmet meals for cats and dogs? My spoiled pets won’t see ‘em.The way the creatures treat me now they’re lucky that I feed ‘em!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer whose pets pretend he’s their master ... occasionally.)