In Saugatuck, Mich., fast food’s forbidden, McDonald’s to go ...News item: SAUGATUCK, Mich. – When building plans for a new McDonald’s restaurant were rejected twice by the city planning commission, the fast-food chain abandoned plans to erect its golden arches here. Residents and merchants of the Lake Michigan resort town had feared the restaurant would tarnish Saugatuck’s image as a sophisticated art colony.The burghers of Saugatuck looked down their noses, whined in their teacups and struck outraged poses. “McDonald’s?” “In Saugatuck?” “Dearie me!” “No!” “They don’t have a dress code or wine list, you know.” “They serve food on plastic or paper, I’m told.”“They put up a sign to announce what they’ve sold!” “They serve food to people in cars that drive through!” “They don’t accept credit!” “Outrageous!” “It’s true!” The burghers of Saugatuck voted:Thumbs down.No fast food, by gosh, would be sold in their town. As news of the anti-Mac vote got around,the burghers of Saugatuck looked out and frowned. They winced as they watched the tourists who came to visit the town with a strange claim to fame.Arriving in buses, in vans and in cars,they drove up the prices in hotels and bars.They bought souvenirs bearing Saugatuck’s name, and T-shirts and key chains that let them proclaim: “I survived Saugatuck – burger-free zone.”The artists moved out. Packed their stuff and went home. The town’s image changed in a rush after that.It soon became known as a cheap tourist trap.Be warned, then, ye burghers of towns large and small:If Ronald McDonald’s attentions should fallon your town, remember once-proud Saugatuck,and put out your welcome mat. Don’t press your luck!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders what future archaeologists will make of all those golden arches ... occasionally.)Summer silence !lls the house when son’s awayOur world seems calmer, more or less. There’ s half the noise and half the mess. Our schedules seem more organized, and mealtimes feel more ... civilized.No “borrowed” toys to confiscate, no arguments to arbitrate.No fairness claims that must be solved, no shouting wars to be resolved.The snack food bill’s been cut in two, the laundry pile’s smaller, too.At bedtime, no loud protestations, pleas, appeals or prolongations.And what, you ask, made chaos cease? What brought this gift of sudden peace and order to our living space?Our older son’s at grandmom’s place!The week’s been nice, but I’ll confess that (secretly) I missed the mess, the arguments, the dirt and noisethat seem to spill from growing boys.A peaceful, quiet life is finein your house, maybe. Not in mine. We’re used to noise near-riotous, and silence just seems ... ominous.A blink from now they’ll both be grown. In college. Married. On their own.It won’t be long, they’ll both be men. Our house will drown in silence then. He’s home! “Hi.What’s to eat tonight?”That’s better. Now our world sounds right.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who likes the sound of two sons arguing ... occasionally.)hrow the book at him, and make it unabridgedNews item: The Wyoming Supreme Court has ruled that the word “conclusory“ is fit for courtroom use. In a footnote to an opinion in a malpractice suit, Justice Walter Urbigkit said the word “ conclusory” (which was created by his law clerk) means “the message is not justified by supported facts, whichit assumes but doesn’t state.” Urbigkit said the decision to use the word “conclusory” is a result of the court’s desire to be concise. “We need to have more defined, clearly expressed communicative skills,” he said.It does our language injuryto use the word “conclusory.”Its meaning’s not precise or clear. What’s more, it grates against the ear. It muddles logic, tortures sense:the opposite of eloquence. Wyoming judges may be wise, but when their rulings brutalize the English language, it’s a crime(much worse than verse of doubtful rhyme) “Conclusory” can’t be allowedto join a language justly proud of its precision, wit and grace.A higher court must hear this case! I’m sure a jury would agree:We do not need “conclusory.”Judge Urbigkit should pay a pricefor coining words that aren’t concise. His punishment should fit his crime. We’ll sentence him to spend some time in jail or in a monasteryalone with just a ... dictionary.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who writes wrongs ... occasionally.)New lyrics for Koch’s N.Y. bluesNews item: New York City has launched an advertising campaign aimed at keeping businesses from moving to New Jersey. The first ad shows Mayor Edward Koch “boarding up” the entrance to the Holland Tunnel.Start spreading the news. They’re moving away.They just don’t want a part of it:New York, New York.Those vagabond crews are starting to strayright from the very heart of it:New York, New York.They want to get out of a citythat’s on the skids. And find a place they can park.Streets without guns. Schools for their kids. Streets without guns!Those Big Apple blues are rotting away.They’ll make a brand new start of it. New Jersey’s way.If Koch can’t keep them there we’ll take their taxes here.So long to you, New York, New York.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who hums the tune to “Hackensack/Hackensack” ... occasionally.)Keys that unlock life’s mysteries are all around usMore than black holes in deepest space, or the songs of the whales in the sea, more than the sources of acid rain,a question keeps baffling me.A drawer in my desk hides the puzzle, profoundest of all mysteries.I stare and I wonder out loud every day:“Now where did I get all these keys?!” Eight pieces of metal all tarnished and dull. Eight keys I once tossed in the drawer.Eight keys with eight purposes I can’t recall. (I’ll think of them one day I’m sure.) Though each one’s uniquely configured,I can’t tell a thing from their shape.And I can’t throw them out till I’m certain disposal won’t be a mistake!I’m sure that they once were all vital. I used them, I’ll bet, every day.But until I remember their purpose, I just cannot throw them away. “You dummy,” I hear myself argue.“Those keys aren’t important, that’s clear. If they were still USEful you’d USE them. They’ve sat in that drawer for a year!” Perhaps I’m a tool (or a coward).I’m not all alone, though, I’ll bet.I’m sure that you, too, have key “orphans” whose purposes you, too, forget.Someday (we’re convinced) we’ll remember. We’ll break through that thick mental block, and shout out in triumph: “Eureka!I know what this key will unlock!” Until then, we hide them discreetly in corners all over the place.And never, NO NEVER, discard them. We keep them, of course, “just in case.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks about starting a chapter of Keykeepers Anonymous ... occasionally.)A sliver of land near the beach rates appraisalNews item: A Rhode Island businessman is hoping to sell 40 beachfront parking spaces for $10,000 apiece.I hope South Jersey never seesa parking space that costs IO Gs. It’s hard enough to find a space with tourists filling up the place.If drivers have to pay IO grandto park, then things are out of hand. But then again, on second thought, a parking space that one has bought might be a bargain; worth the price (especially if the view is nice.)A bit of beachfront at the shoreis worth IO big ones. Maybe more. A place to lie out in the sun,to barbecue and have some fun!Invite some friends to spend the night! (In sleeping bags if that’s all right.)It might be cramped, but that’s O.K. It’s just for summer, anyway.(Most summer places people rent are often smaller than a tent.)A condo parking space sounds good. I think I’d buy one if I could.(Though chances are, with my bad luck, my next door neighbor’d be a truck.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks about investment properties ... occasionally.)Michigan would run a mile to flee dreaded camelNews item: Roxanne the camel escaped from the zoo in Grand Rapids, Mich., last week and frightened a number of residents during her two hours of freedom. ‘I thought it was a buffalo, it was so big,’ said Marty Majchrzak. ‘That thing was bigger than my car,’ said motorist Bob Jester. Richard Bechtold didn’t believe his wife when she said a camel was on their properly. ‘It’s a big dog,’ he told her.What rough beast is slouching thither leaving folks in such a dither?Larger than a station wagon, be it dog or be it dragon?Be the beast a buffalo?Quoth Grand Rapids: “We don’t know!!” Be it elk with horns outflaring,leaving people speechless, staring? Be it Bigfoot on the loose?Be it some defiant moose? Be it pachydermatous?Quoth Grand Rapids: “Sure beats us!!” Be the thing some mythic horror (Stephen Kingish? More bizarre-er)? “Lord,” they pleadeth, boy and man, “Pity, please, poor Michigan.Hear our prayers we here invoke. Spare us simple, plainish folk!Keep us free from fear and worry. Stay thy horrid dromedary!”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders what’s in the other cage at the Grand Rapids zoo ... occasionally.)he old soldiers may fade but our debt never diesNews item: According to the Veterans Administration, there are only three surviving Spanish-American War era veterans. One of the three, John T. Fitzgerald of Barnegat, is I02.We rarely remember The Maine these days, or why we went to war.“We fought with Spain? We sank their fleet? Men died? Whatever for?”Manila Bay and San Juan Hill? It’s ancient history.For three men, though, it’s still alive in fading memory.The world they knew has disappeared except behind their eyes.They carry our past like a dying flame:their trophy, their treasure, their prize.More recent wars obscured their own. They’ve seen their glory die,eclipsed by larger battlefronts. Time marched and passed them by.Their war is just a footnote now, and Time has thinned their ranks.But what was owed, is owed them still:their nation’s humble thanks.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks we forget too easily ... occasionally.)Who’s missing in photo album?Dear old dadOn Father’s Day, a truth to ponder:There is no man of whom we’re fonder, yet somehow (and I’m not sure why) we rarely photograph the guy.In fact, I’ll bet if you’d inspect the family photos you collect,you’d find a ton of children shots and heaps from old vacation spots, but veeeerrrry few of dear, old Dad.(And those aren’t knockouts, I might add.) Dad in background. Dad from rear.Dad’s right shoulder. Dad’s left ear.Always at the edge of things in shots of family gatherings,poor Dad’s the man of mystery in family photo-history.For Father’s Day, might I suggesta gift worth more than all the rest? Try “wasting” film on Dad today.Get Dad at breakfast, Dad at play, Dad relaxing, Dad at lunch.Snap like crazy! Shoot a bunch! Make Dad a star. Record his day. (He has enough ties, anyway.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wishes he had more than one photograph of his father ... occasionally.)A ‘60s survivor still remembers the good old days“It was 20 years ago todaySergeant Pepper taught the band to play.”– 20-year-old Beatles lyric.“What was,” they say,“is done and gone.” I disagree. It isn’t true.“With age,” they say, “we change, move on.” I haven’t changed a BIT. Have you?My hair might be a trifle gray, my belt a wee bit larger now.I don’t flash “peace” signs much. But, hey, the war is over, anyhow.No day-glo posters grace my wall. I wear a suit (not all the time).I’d love to “rap,” but, after all,my job and kids don’t leave much time.I rarely study every wordof songs the way I used to do.But most new songs that I have heard can’t touch the stuff we listened to.I used up all my body paint.A word like “groovy” makes me grin.My son says “love-in” sounds so ... quaint. (But if you hold one, count me in!)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks aboutcoming to work with flowers in his hair ... occasionally.)Family’s good sport expected to forfeit in the annual gameThe countdown to summer vacation’s begun. We have different visions of what would be “fun.” I vote for sailing. (I do every year.)A U-Rent-It yacht on a sea calm and clear would cure any lingering winter depressions. And all I would need are a few sailing lessons. Our older son lobbies for distance again.He wants to go someplace where we’ve never been: “Australia or Europe. Pick one or the other.” Expensive? No problem. Just don’t take his brother. The younger son’s preference? A place with a ride more stomach-upsetting than any he’s tried.Six Flags Over anywhere suits him just fine.He loves to spend summertime standing in line. My wife wants to spend all her time at the beach, with a book and iced tea never far from her reach. No thrill rides for her, no trips to the mountains, no sailboats, no airports and no Roman fountains. No passports, no luggage, no room reservations.She likes to do NOTHING on summer vacations. For weeks now we’ll argue, discuss and debate it. The worst part of summer comes next and I hate it. It’s always the same.When we sit down to choose how to spend our vacation someone will lose.I’ll make a prediction. Just wait, and you’ll see, the loser this year (once again) will be ... me!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who tapes photographs of sailboats to the refrigerator ... occasionally.)Brief truce called in war between father and sonHis books are scattered on the stairs.His chores aren’t done. So what.Who cares? His English project’s overdue.His bike’s still out.That’s OK, too.His bedroom’s a catastrophe. But, hey, that doesn’t bother me. He’s still asleep at half-past noon. The house is silent, like a tomb.I walk on tiptoe past his door, aware of every sigh and snore. No lectures now or loud debate. The father-son wars have to wait.Our teenage son is sick, you see. (His temperature’s a hundred-three.) My sparring partner’s off his feed.We’ve called a truce.We’ve both agreed:Until he’s well and more himself our Clash of Wills goes on the shelf. No arguments or confrontations,all I bring are medications.He’s the patient, I’m the nurse.We speak in even tones. Converse. We’re civil, one-on-one. Polite.Determined not to start a fight.This shift in roles is pleasant (though it cannot last as we both know).He’ll soon be in the pink and then we’ll climb back in the ring again.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wins some arguments on points ... occasionally.)  his plan’s designed to make bureaucrats go from bad to verseNews item: WASHINGTON – A presidential task force has given administration departmentheads until March 20 to come up with ways to cut paperwork by 20 percent over the next four years.The government’s paperwork, everyone knows, is built to expand. Just like Topsy, it grows.A note from the president making suggestionswill come back attached to a page full of questions.A brief, one-line memo will somehow expandto cover more ground than the writer had planned. All forms must have footnotes to cover all bases, all options, exceptions, exemptions and cases.No study is final until it’s revised, redrafted, rewritten and reorganized by bleary-eyed people who sit at PC’sconverting plain English to bureaucratese.They can’t keep it simple. Direct. Short and sweet. “It just fills one page? Then it can’t be complete.” They’re frustrated authors, a word-drunken crew. They won’t use one word when a dozen will do. They can’t send out letters without an addendum. (“Don’t add a PS? How else do we end ‘em?”) This word-glut dilemma will only get worse.It’s time we insist that they all write in verse. It’s harder to write when a thing has to rhyme.It takes more precision; it takes much more time. If Oliver North had to rhyme when he wrote just think of the time he’d have had to devoteto rhyming the details of his secret plan to swap arms for hostages held in Iran.North’s serpentine plot might still be un-spun. Rhymes for “Khomeini”? Can you think of one?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks brevity and politics are mutually exclusive ... occasionally.)When snow falls,night-shift Dad sings the bluesWhat’s that outside? Is that ...? OH NO!! Another foot of *%#&!* snow?I’m sick of snow! I hate the stuff! It’s got to stop! I’ve had enough!The kids won’t go to school today, they’ll get another holiday!I’ll babysit (since I work nights).I’ll hear the screams and stop the fights.I’ll have to feed the hungry crew:my sons and all their buddies, too.Their friends (who know I’m home all day,) will ask their moms if it’s OKfor them to spend the snow day HERE. Their moms will say: “I guess so, dear.If it’s all right with Mr. E.”Their kids, of course, will not ask me.They’ll ask my sons, and they’ll say “Sure!” (They’ve pulled this little trick before.) They’ll wreck the house. (They call it play.) They won’t go out. “It’s cold!” they’ll say.Imagine, if you can, the noise produced by such a pack of boys! Imagine that, and then you’ll know the reason I DESPISE the snow.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who sticks pins in a voo-doo doll that looks like Willard Scott ... occasionally.)