Product loyaltyis expected on the jobNews item: A Coca-Cola bottling company employee in Anniston, Ala., was docked $150 in pay and laid off for three days by Coke officials because he drank Pepsi-Cola on the job.Coke workers can’t drink Pepsi. You see what grief that leads to. The lesson here is clearly this:Don’t bite the hand that feeds you. For workers who ignore this rule, we have no sympathy.If they won’t swallow what they make, then why the hell should we?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders if his “new Coke” is the real thing ... occasionally.)Kids won’t be kissed; it’s sad time for dadA cautionary tale for Father’s Day:Tom had a problem. His problem was this:He ran when his dad tried to give him a kiss. He’d groan if his dad tried to kiss him good night. He said it was silly and didn’t seem right.A quick, little peck was the most he would take. “I’m 12! Not a baby, dad! Give me a break!” (Freud might explain it as Oedipal guilt:“Der son loves der momma; der poppa he’s kilt.”) Whatever the reason, dad honored Tom’s wishes and no longer bothered to give his son kisses.Unkissed by his dad,Tom grew to a man.On Christmas and birthdays, his dad shook his hand. Dad kept his feelings locked up inside.When Tommy got married, he said to his bride: “My dad’s not like yours, he’s aloof and apart.” His wife said: “You’re father,Tom, hasn’t a heart.” Tom took his family and moved far away.Said Tom: “Dad won’t miss us. Not much, anyway.” One day 12 years later Tom wrote to his dad:“I need some advice, pop. I feel a bit sad.Your grandson,Tom junior, won’t kiss me goodnight. Its normal, I guess, but it doesn’t seem right.It’s hard to show love to a son you can’t kiss.If you were me, Pop, how would you handle this?” Tom’s dad sent an answer, quite brief, to his son: “Practice your handshake.The hard part’s begun.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who still gets goodnight kisses from his sons ... occasionally.)Hard hiflers fly in face of agingAh, hear the boys of summer singing in their ruin,aging knee-joints creaking out time’s melancholy tune.Their sandlot days are memories, (their sandlot legs are, too,)but not a man among them thinks his baseball days are through.As bees still prowl in blossoms ruined and ravaged by a frost,the boys of summer take the field in search of what they’ve lost.Grunting down the basepaths, wheezing after flies,too slow to make a double play, but not to criticize:“I can’t believe you missed that!” “He never touched the base!”(The game they play’s called softball, and also Saving Face.)Contention fills the ballfield as runs and errors mount.“I thought you said you had it!” “That last run doesn’t count!”It’s “just” a softball game, you say? And no one really cares?Shhh. Keep it to yourself. Don’t tell the aging Bad News Bears.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who plays right field ...occasionally.)  Summer dreams: Reading between the lines for camp adsA parents’ guide to “code words” in advertisements for summer camps:Non-competitive ProgramThis camp is short on sporting gear. Their tennis net got ripped last year. Their one canoe is paddle-less.Their swimming pool’s a scummy mess.Individualized ProgramEach year this camp draws fewer kids; financially, it’s on the skids.Each kid they get’s a fiscal coup. They’ll look for something he can do.Structured ProgramMajor Jones, who owns this place, runs it like an Army base.Campers late for reveille get 20 pushups AND K.P.Mature StaffThe counselors here are all old friends; they sneak in town when each day ends. They’d have more time to drink and play if all the campers stayed away.Wholesome AtmosphereThis place is dull. Deliberately.It’s just like Dad’s camp used to be. No go-cart tracks, no rocketry.Says Dad: “This place looks swell to me.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who remembers two un-pleasant weeks in the summer of ‘54 ... occasionally.)Recipe for change: women’s magazinesMagazines like Woman’s Dayhave changed, I noticed yesterday. When I was young (and Mom was, too) I’d sometimes flip through one or two.But all I’d ever find insidewere recipes. (“How dull,” I sighed.) I saw a recent magazine,and (shock!) found more than mere cuisine:–	a guide to forms of birth control–	a child-abuser bares his soul–	a frank report on Wives Who Cheat–	career tips: “Don’t Be Shy, Compete!”–	a health report: An AIDS Update–	investment help: Plan Your Estate. The world of women’s grown complex.Their lives these days are filled with stress. They juggle families, chores, careers,and learn to cope with modern fears.They need much more than recipesfor 10 Main Courses Made With Cheese. But still, I miss those magazines,the ones I looked at in my teens.They made the world seem safe and neat. The only crisis: “What’s to eat?”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who “borrows” his wife’s copies of Woman’s Day and Family Circle ... occasionally.)Indoor cookouts take the fun out of fussingScience, in your name great crimes have been inflicted on our times:–	Zoysia grass and nuclear fission–	the automatic car transmission–	soybean bacon, instant tea–	the scented, plastic Christmas tree. Clever things, beyond a doubt,but stuff we could have done without. And now, I see, there’s something new:the indoor-outdoor barbecue.“No muss, no fuss,” the ads declare. “Grill steaks and chicken anywhere! Summer, winter, snow or rain.You’ll never cook outdoors again.” Barbecue indoors? Bizarre!Science, you have gone too far. Man was made to grill outdoors; we’ve done it since the dinosaurs!No smoke, no soot? No flaming coals? No burned and blackened hot dog rolls? No burgers charred and overdone?No muss, no fuss? That’s half the fun!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who cooks smoke burgers and chardogs ... occasionally.)A tribute to Mom: she did it her wayWho taught you how to blow your nose? Mom did.Who gave you baths and washed your clothes? Mom did.Who held you when you skinned your knee, who helped you get through infancy,who gave her love unstintingly? Mom did.Who taught you how to read and write? Mom did.Who catered to your appetite? Mom did.Who cheered your sports ability, who helped you get through puberty, who hugged you less (reluctantly)?Mom did.Who gave you things you can’t repay? Who saw you grow and move away? Mom did.Who knows the thief that time can be? Mom treasures every memory,and loves to hear “Hi, Mom? It’s me!”? Mom does.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who calls his Mom for no particular reason ... occasionally.)Feathered friends frustrate familyMemo to the birds who set up housekeeping in my attic heat duct:What’s wrong with trees? Too cold? Too wet? Your parents would be sad, I’ll bet,to see you’ve stooped to build a nest where humans live. Birds, I protest!My cats go nuts when your kids peep. They prowl the house and cannot sleep. My dog thinks she is hearing things each time the kitchen heat vent “sings.”My kids won’t use the bathroom fan for fear of shredding up your clan.Nature’s place is out of doors, and nests belong in sycamores.I won’t evict you.Wouldn’t try. Stay until your kids can fly.When you moved in, I’m sure you knew your landlord is a father, too.One request, though. Ask your spouse:Next spring, try my neighbor’s house!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders why he put birdhouses in his backyard ... occasionally.)Sweet-talking dads sell candy for kidsFar from the bat’s explosive “CRACK!” Far from the double plays.The Little League dads are making their pitch: “Who wants to buy Milky Ways?”In faculty lounges they peddle their stock. In corporate boardrooms as well.“It’s only a buck!” “It’s for a good cause!” “I only have six more to sell!”Lawyers, accountants, mechanics and cops, bankers and truck drivers, too,pleading with bachelors: “Come on!In 10 years, I’ll be buying this candy from you!” Little League dads prowl lunchrooms at work, lugging their candy bar boxes.Stalking for prey that might have a buck. Cunning and clever as foxes.Little League dads in triumph come home. “SOLD OUT!” they announce at the door. “Hey, great Dad!” they’re told. “At practice today our coach gave us six boxes more!”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders if Mike Schmidt’s father had to sell candy ... occasionally.) Refrigerator door holds memories like a scrapbookThe icebox door’s a special place:a quasi-public private space.An ever-changing calendarthat shows us who we are and were.The “clutter” on an icebox door’s a history, too. In miniature.Held in place magnetically:the essence of a family.A message board: “Cash tax rebate!” Appointment book: “Cub Scouts at 8.”Yellow Pages: business cardsfor plumbers, painters, lumberyards. A cookbook: untried recipes.A daydream: Pick-Six lotteries.A scrapbook: treasured documents that testify to excellence(spelling quizzes, book reports, certificates for band and sports).A mailbox: letters on displayfrom once-best-friends who moved away.Museum: photos, souvenirsof trips we took in other years. A gallery for priceless art:a felt tip boat, a crayon heart. Paper “heirlooms” fill our door. Scraps of paper by the score.Scraps that mean: “We Love.” “We care.” I hope our door is never bare.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who can't find thehandle for his icebox door ... occasionally.)New glassware reflects changeThe world remembers Great Events, occasions fit to celebrate.Triumphs, breakthroughs, victories, all honored with a special date.But calendars should also note Great challenges we all have faced. Today, for instance, at my house the kiddie glasses were replaced.For years, two sets of drinking ware competed for tight cupboard spaces:“grown up” glasses (Mom’s and Dad’s) and those we got at fast-food places. Charlie Brown and Mr. Spock, Darth Vader, Princess Leia, too.Elmer Fudd, McDonald’s clown, Big Bird and all the Muppets crew. The colors faded, letters blurred,whole “sets of four” were down to one. “We ought to pack these things away.They’re ‘heirlooms’ now,’” we told our sons. They bought our logic.“Sure.” “OK.”So we raced out and bought a set of gleaming, gracious crystalware. (Imported stuff. From Europe, yet.) Our glasses now are uniform,clear proof our kids are growing up. Such progress, though, extracts a price. I’ll really miss my “Star Wars” cup.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders whatever became of his Howdy Doody cereal bowl ... occasionally.)Liflle League: A parent’s pitchA Little Leaguer’s Parent’s Prayer:Let his uniform fit(not too big or too small.) Let him not lose a tooth to a high, inside ball.Let him not miss the bag when he’s turning for third. Let him not be distracted by a plane, cloud or bird.Let his father keep silent if he drops a fly(or encourage the effort:“Way to go kid! Good try!”)Let him win some and lose some, taste triumph, defeat.Let no easy grounders slip right through his feet.Let him swing at the Good Ones and CLOBBER a few.Let him learn to relaxwhen the count’s three and two. Let him play for the pleasure, compete for the fun.Let him smile when his friend (other team) scores a run.Let him laugh at his errors, strike out without shame. Let his coaches remember:It’s only a game.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who played shortstop for the McKinley Oilers ... occasionally.)Melt-down leaves memories, regretsThat carrot in the driveway was a nose the night before.Two eyes that sparkled brightly are just buttons now once more.My favorite hat’s still out there, it’s all mud- and water-stained.Last night a snowman turned to slush. Last night, alas, it rained.My youngest son was saddened by the puddles on the lawn:“It took all day to build it, Dad, and now my snowman’s gone!”“Well, nothing lives forever, son,” I told him fatherly.“Truth and love and dreams are all that last eternally.The works of man aren’t permanent. Your snowman taught you that.And one more thing. Remember this:The next time use YOUR hat!”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks snowmen look much better without hats ... occasionally.)    Real soldiers don’t carry umbrellasNews item: Male officers in the U.S. Army will not be permitted to carry umbrellas because it would create an ‘unmilitary’ image.At ease, General Patton. Rest on, it won’t happen. The Army won’t issue umbrellas.The troops won’t complain. They’ll stand in the rain:two-fisted, red-blooded, wet fellas.Alas, it is true, that they’ll still use shampoo, hair dryers, mouthwash and cologne.But in inclement weather, they’ll stand there together:Real Men who are soaked to the bone.No umbrellas for them.They are brave, hardy men who are tough, in the peak of condition.Let the rains fall in torrents!They won’t whimper, flinch or wince. Pneumonia’s an Army tradition.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who remembers the rains of Fort Lewis,Washington ... occasionally.) Life, liberty and the pursuit of trivia“Who dueled Aaron Burr and where?” (Frankly, dear, I do not care.)“Who played Topper on TV?” (I’m certain that it wasn’t me.)“What did Charles Dodgson write?” (I hope this game won’t take all night.)“What composer couldn’t hear?” (I think I’ll get another beer.)“What was history’s longest war?” (God, this game is such a bore!)“Who portrayed the Flying Nun?” (I wonder if the Sixers won.)“Tom or Jerry? Who’s the cat?” (HA! Any little kid knows that!)“Who breaks ties on Senate votes?”(I wonder where they put our coats ...)“Who directed ‘Vertigo’?”(I can’t believe she doesn’t know!)“What’s the largest, living bird?” (Did he say “eagle”? What a nerd!)(This game’s designed for intellects! Let’s stick around. It’s my turn next.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who indulges in trivial pursuits ... occasionally.)Fatherhood’s tough, but there are days when sons shineThings I will NOT miss when my sons are grown:Tripping on toys that litter the floor, a minefield of youthful debris.Apportioning blame and justice at night for crimes I was not home to see.Tasting “neat” beverages someone has brewed: “milk-soda” and other elixirs.Watching dull programs a teacher assigned instead of the Phillies or the Sixers.Checking math problems that make my eyes glaze. Spending small fortunes on shoes.Paying for braces with money I’d hoped might go for a boat or a cruise.Things I WILL miss when my sons are grown:Holding my breath inside tunnels to enliven a long, boring ride.Taking my turn on a red, plastic sled (for a father, such fun’s justified).“Throwing” a game of Monopoly or Clue in a way that cannot be detected.Being the butt of an April Fool’s joke and pretending I never suspected.Having somebody to share chuckles with, a son who prefers licorice.Hearing a voice that calls out at night:“Hey! Somebody owes me a kiss!”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wishes his sons would never grow up ... occasionally.)Morte de JakeNews item: LEBANON, Ore. – A live rat was placed in a cage as food for a 4 1/2-foot boa constrictor at a local high school before Christmas. The snake went into hibernation when the school’s heating system was turned down, and the rat chewed more than a foot of the snake before classes resumed. The snake (named Jake) later died.It’s a shame about Jake, how he just couldn’t takeany sudden, unseasonable chill. “I’m taking a nap,”he declared to the rat.“I’ll wait,” the rat promised. “I will!”As Jake took his slumber, the rat paused to wonder:“How my rat tummy rumbles and groans!Even Jake would admit that I ought to stay fitor poor Jake will be dining on bones!”The school’s science class left no rat food (alas).“Now what,” the rat mused, “shall I eat?” “Do you think Jake would mindif I quietly dinedon his tail? I will be quite discrete.”He carefully gnawed, he nibbled and clawed,till a bell rang: a rude reveille. When Jake woke (a foot short) the rat gave his report:“Little Jake, that bell’s tolling for thee.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who roots for the under-rat ... occasionally.)A ‘temporary’ way to trim governmentNews item: The Reagan administration is encouraging federal agencies to hire temporary employees instead of career workers because temporaries receive fewer benefits and are easier to dismiss.I hope this plan applies to more than low-paid file clerks.The U.S. payroll’s loaded with some high-priced bureau-jerks. I’ll bet we’d save a billion bucks in wasted salariesif we could call in Kelly girls to run some agencies.They wouldn’t need big limos. They’d put in eight-hour days. They wouldn’t need a staff of flacks to fill their ears with praise.They wouldn’t hire relatives, or play at politics.They wouldn’t jet around the world on vague, “fact-finding” trips.Imagine it! A Washington where people earned their pay instead of looking busyor postponing work each day:The plan, of course, is just a dream. It wouldn’t work, you know.Our deficits are built upon a no-work status-quo.And temporary bureaucrats would set a precedentthat might prompt someone to propose a “temp” for president.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders if “checksand balances” have anything to do with budget deficits ... occasionally.)  Consuming passion: Home- improvements can be addictiveMy heart leaps up on Sunday morns when the newspaper lands at my door.For somewhere inside a supplement hides: a section I cannot ignore.I skip the sports, ignore the books, the comics, stocks and fashions.The news has to wait for I have a date with a section that fires my passions.The magazine I set aside.I put entertainment on hold.All I want is to pore through the ads for the store where the do-it-yourself stuff is sold!“What new project can I start on? Paint a room or plant a garden?Build a shed or put a skylight in the kitchen or the hall?Tile floors? Put in a sink?Build a fence? Stockade or link? Put new shutters on the windows or put shelving on a wall?New storm windows? Ceiling fans? Build a deck? They have free plans All I need, they say, is lumber (number 2, pre-treated pine.)”All the ads are so compellingI forget that what they’re selling will require lots of laborand the labor will be mine!Project-fever is a curse. It’s insidious. Perverse.I no sooner end one project, I begin to look for more.I am hooked, alas, addicted. By a bug I’ve been afflicted.I have home-improvement-itis and, alas, there is no cure.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who likes his house the way it is ... occasionally.) he lessons of capitalism aren’t lost on young tycoonAt first, my son protested. “A paper route? No way! That means I’ll have to get up early every, single day!School’s almost out! Next week I want to sleep and stay in bed.It’s too much work. It isn’t fun. I’d rather not,” he said.I led him through the mists, of time to my delivery days.“It’s not that tough.You learn a lot. Not only that, it pays!”Money talks. Resistance died. He joined the Rank and File. A worker, junior grade/step 1, division: mercantile.Day 1: He couldn’t manage all the papers in one bag.I went along to help him so his spirits wouldn’t sag.Day 2:The press broke down I guess. The paper came out late.He went to school, I made his rounds. One lady was irate.“What took so long?” she barked at me, “It’s almost 8:15!My sister’s paper came on time and she’s in Brigantine!”Day 3: It rained.We took the car. (I didn’t think it fairfor me to keep to my dry bed while he got wet out there.)Day 4:The Sunday crusher. His papers weighed a ton.He didn’t need my help that day. (He used our youngest son.)Day 5 through 8 he had a ball. No early reveille!Day 5 through 8 was Boy Scout camp. The paperboy was me.The awkward days are over now. We all have learned some lessons.A father can’t do everything to help his adolescents.My son no longer wants my help, his brother’s aid he shirks.We charge him for our services. The profit motive works!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who gives his paperboy a generous tip ... occasionally.)Politics: an introduction to proper deportmentNews item: TRENTON – A New Jersey legislator has admitted he received $10,000 for “introducing” a corporation to a Trenton law firm.Emily Post would turn pale as a ghost, Miss Manners would not be amused.Paid introductions are social obstructions, their practice cannot be excused.Your soup never slurp. In public don’t burp. (Behavior reflects pedigree.)When one introduces, avoid such abuses as asking “What’s in it for me?”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who knows which fork to use ... occasionally.)He judges not, lest he be judgedThe Young One says: “It isn’t fair.He stays up late and gets to wearnew clothes but I get hand-me-downs.” He’s got a point.The Old One says: “It isn’t right. You take his side in every fight.You never think that he’s to blame.” There’s truth in that.Which leaves us – where?There is no easy justice in my family court.Each verdict that I render prompts a quick appeal. I try to find a compromise or cut a deal, contriving hasty rulings of a Solomon-ish sort.(A father is obliged to seem unscrupulously fair.)“He gets more allowance!” “I took out the trash!” Every day an argument; every night a clash.“You were out!” “I wasn’t! Give me back the bat!” Enter Dad: Chief Justice and neutral diplomat.Child A says B’s a creep. B says A is cheating. “Children are a blessing,” I find myself repeating. My verdict is awaited. Justice must be done.Do I indict the older boy or blame the younger one? A jurisprudence cop-out! I find for neither brother.I send them to a higher court: their mother.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who watches The People’s Court ... occasionally.)Oh, those gnasty gnats ...The stigng of the ‘skeeter is surgically gneater, the hum of the bee gives us wargnigng to flee. To farmers, the weevil persognifies evil,but I hate the gnip of the gnat.Alogne it is furtive,ign gagngs it’s assertive.It gnibbles agnd gnaws as our flesh it devours. It ruigns our slumbers,attackigng ign gnumbersthat leave our skign itchigng for hours and hours.Gnature designed itso we couldgn’t fignd it:agn ignsect too tigny for humagns to see. Gno sougnd to alert us,it sgneaks up to hurt us,as gnoiseless and silegnt as its letter “G.”The stigng of the ‘skeeter is surgically gneater, the hum of the bee gives us wargnigng to flee. To farmers, the weevil persognifies evil,but I hate the gnip of the gnat.(J.D. Evagns, a pseudognym, is a Gnew Jersey writer who stocks up ogn Sevign ... occasiognally.)    Another woe with growing old ... erNews item: Scientific researchers have found that the most significant change in a healthy person’s memory occurs not in old age but between ages 30 and 50.I went to work last week without a belt; the colors of my socks were not the same. Last night I left my keys inside the car,and called my youngest son his brother’s name. My treasured silver pen (engraved: “To Dad”) routinely gets “misplaced” when I’m at work.The people at my office watch me search. “The pen again?” they ask me with a smirk.Today, I left the trash cans by the curb. Alas, the trucks collected yesterday.When people answer calls that I have left them, I can’t remember what I called to say.I tried to keep a list of “Things to Do”, but kept forgetting where I put the list.This year I’m sure I’ll set a Guinness recordfor “Movies Meant To See But Somehow Missed.”(Hmmm.)......................(Hmmm.)......................Forgetfulness can strike at any time.My mind has no precautions it can take. I almost had this commentary finished. Then I forgot the point I meant to make.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a 40-year-old New Jersey writer who remembers The Alamo and The Maine ... occasionally.)For rent:ex-jockey, ex-racehorse, ex-jetI have an ailment, a curious one, and nothing can cure my affliction.There’s nothing my doctor cam do for the pain, he can’t even write a prescription.The problem is worst at parades and at zoos, and sometimes when I’m at the beach.It’s an ache that I can’t seem to shake or relieve, like an itch that your arm cannot reach.It starts in my shoulders and goes to my heart. The pain is a small birdlike peck.It flares up whenever a father walks by with a child attached to his neck.Children are built to ride on their dads, to see the world pass from up high,to look over crowds from a personal perch, peering down from a throne in the sky.And a father is built to march down a street: like a giant a midget has caught,to neigh like a racehorse or roar like a jet, yelling “Blast-off” to small astronauts.But children abandon their fathers in time, they grow up and climb down to earth.Leaving dad an ex-racehorse, ex-rocket, ex-jet, an obsolete, riderless perch.Both of my sons are too heavy, too tall, so I envy each father I seewith a son or a daughter “attached” to his neck, and recall when that racehorse was me.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who finds himselfthinking about grandchildren ... occasionally.)If Wafl says ‘howdy’ it comes out cloudyJames G.Watt (the “G” is not for “gaffe” or “goat” or “geek”)tries to be clever – and fails – whenever he opens his mouth to speak.James G.Watt has obviously got a strange and exotic affliction.When he jokes (ha-ha) he commits faux pas as his thoughts are converted to diction.James G.Watt took a cheap, stupid shot at cripples and women and blacks.The president sighed, and Watt qualified what he “meant” by his latest attacks.James G.Watt shoots his mouth off a lot, he once called ecologists “Nazis.”He said the Beach Boys attract riff-raff and noise, and called Indians socialist patsies.James (Gaius) Watt holds a once-honored spot, a post that deserves our respect.The nation’s resources (wild rivers/wild horses) are entrusted to him protect.But, alas, James G.Watt completely forgot that his job is too vital for jest.What we need at Interior is someone superior, not a clown in a suit and vest.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks before he speaks ... occasionally.)Studies won’t solve the real school crisisItem: A $1 million Carnegie Foundation study has concluded that American schools should put more emphasis on English and writing.Item: A $4 million Charles F. Kettering Foundation study has concluded that American schools need smaller classes.Item: A 17-month study by the National Science Foundation has concluded that America’s schools need a $1.5 billion crash program to bolster math and science education.All that money, talk and time.And all for nothing! What a crime. The question in the schools today is not “Do we need merit pay?”It isn’t English vs. mathor how much time is spent in class. It isn’t tests for basic skills,or whether sports are needless frills.What every parent wants to know is why his child has to gofrom house to house and door to door, a small, unpaid solicitor.–	Selling candy, seeds and pensto neighbors or indulgent friends.–	Learning how to wheel and deal to get a prize for extra “zeal.”Children shouldn’t have to sell(or make their parents hawk as well). Why can’t all those rich foundations give our schools some big donations? Surveys? Studies? Balderdash!Keep the research. Send the cash.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who brings boxes of subs, candy bars, pens and rock-hard fruitcakes to the office ... occasionally.)he animal kingdomhas its share of troubles, tooNews item: ANAHEIM, Calif. – Animals appear to use drugs occurring in nature to “get high” and relieve stress just as humans do, a researcher told the annual meeting of the American Psychological Association.Why is that horse really snorting? What makes that pig squeal and root? Is that dog who is frantically sniffing seeking something to give him a toot?What does an ostrich keep hiddenin the hole where he buries his head? What is that myna bird munching that makes him repeat what I’ve said?Do turtles take “downers” in secret? Are rabbits and chipmunks on “speed?” And why do hyenas keep laughing?Do they nibble some curious weed?Are bullfrogs tripping on mushroomswhen they stick out their tongues to get flies? And what are those screech-owls taking?Just look at the size of their eyes!Why would a bee want a buzz? Does a mole really need to get high? What stress-can a cobra be under? “It’s a jungle out here,” they reply.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who scores some catnip for his cat ... occasionally.) First days start $ne but pass in short timeEverything’s possible on Opening Day. Students are eager (to learn, not to play.) Teachers are fresh as a new textbook’s pages, too busy to think about tenure or wages.Principals beam as they walk through the halls inspecting the new coats of paint on the walls. Blackboards are spotless, the chalk is brand-new, and playground behavior’s too good to be true. Lunch tables sparkle, the buses all hum,and school disciplinarians twiddle their thumbs.It’s a bubble, a thread, the illusion can’t last, Reality’s trumpets will soon sound the blast. A nudge in the hallway, a punch in the gym,a teacher who thinks that they’re laughing at him. Homework forgotten, detentions assigned: faculty members lampooned and maligned.Notes sent to parents for after-school chats, fouled-up alarm bells and stuck thermostats. School board proposals for more program cuts, teachers who fear that their lives are in ruts.Failure, frustration: they’re not far awayfrom the all-things-are-possible Opening Day. The First Day of school is over too soon.It’s downhill from there to the Last Day in June.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wistfully remembers the First Day of School ... occasionally.)‘Papering’ one’s way across the U.S.A.A busman’s holiday (everyone knows) consists of riding on buses.Vacationing weathermen spend their days off taking snapshots of odd cumuluses.And newspaper people (when they go away) have a habit that can’t seem to lose:they buy local papers where ever they go they’re addicts, they’re hooked on the news. They look for stories the wires don’t run, the small stuff, the real nitty-gritty,the news of the places they’re traveling through, each village and hamlet and city.So here’s a report, the news of last week, from Barstow to Pittsburgh, Pa.A coast-to-coast summary of hot, local news I picked up while I was away.CaliforniaA “brown pregnant goat” turned up in her yard, a woman in Barstow reports.The West beat the East at the Hemet swim meet. (That was the Big News in sports.)ArizonaIn Kingman, it’s “Mud Mania” time once again, contestants must run, crawl and slidethrough an obstacle course near the town’s junior high for trophies the Lions provide.The Visitors Center in Winslow’s complete, and police are looking for tracesof the person(s) who stayed at the Sand/Sage Motel and left taking two pillow cases.New MexicoThe weather report for Gallup is terse, once again it says: “More of the same.” Las Cruces has opened a jail without bars (the warden says “it’s more humane.”)In small Tucumcari, the Quay County “Sun” reports that a brand new motelwill be built near I-40, and two escapees were caught and returned to their cell.TexasThere’s a big sale on boots at Feferman’s store. The sheriff of Deaf Smith’s resigned.There’s a help-wanted ad seeking “cowboys.” The Old West gets harder to find.OklahomaThe highways near Tulsa “explode” in the heat, and state engineers don’t know why.The gas drilling’s good in the North Eakly field, and barge traffic soared in July.MissouriSpringfield:The “News” has a full page of winners from the Ozark Empire Fair.St. Louis:The “Post” has a story on rats that are giving the city a scare.IndianaThey’ve found gypsy moths in Terre Haute, and in places all over the state.Indianapolis needs more parking lots (local merchants are really irate.)PennsylvaniaA rapist escaped in Pittsburgh,a giant crane crashed in the street; a gunman was shot in Shenango, York farmers are cursing the heat.This pile of papers beside me makes one thing abundantly clear:for Dorothy there’s no place like Kansas, for Evans there’s no place like here.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who goes away so he can go home again ... occasionally.)      Baby teeth present a dental dilemmaThey’re utterly useless, these small bits of bone, except to confirm that my two sons have grown. I’ve saved every one (there’s a dozen or more) in a small plastic bag in the back of a drawer.I’ve never been able to throw them away,though the reason I keep them is hard to convey. It isn’t the money that I had to “trade.”I consider the nickels and quarters I paidin those midnight transactions as money well spent they made a small trauma a happy event.They’re fossils of sorts, they’re relics of youth, but what does one DO with a used baby tooth?You don’t have them bronzed (like baby’s first shoes) or pass them around for your friends to peruse.You don’t get them mounted or seal them in plastic, and throwing them out just seems callous and drastic; it’s a baffling question that parenthood brings:What does the Tooth Fairy do with these things?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who fills in for the T.F. ...occasionally.)Burden of balance a constant challengeWhen a congressman’s not sleeping with his pages Or devising ways to rob the public blind,The pursuits that in his spare time he engages      Are as honest and as pure as yours or mine. But a newsman’s tender feelings he must smotherWhen a journalistic duty’s to be done.Ah, take one consideration with another. A reporter’s lot is not a happy one.When a president’s not using pilfered papers Or covertly helping rebels stage a coup,He tells jokes to all the movers and the shakersAnd wears jeans the same as common people do.When he’s finished castigating welfare mothers He will chopper off to have a little fun.Ah, take one consideration with another, A reporter’s lot is not a happy one.When the mayor isn’t hiding from his critics      Or appointing friends to jobs they don’t deserve, His demeanor can be charming and pacificAs he poses with the voter that he serves.Though he’ll set one neighborhood against the other, He’ll play tennis for a charitable fund.Ah, take one consideration with another, A reporter’s lot is not a happy one.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who hums Gilbert and Sullivan tunes ... occasionally.) here’s a BASIC flaw in this computer’s craw10 I PEEKed and POKEd and checked my BYTEs. 20 I GOSUBed left and GOSUBed right.30 I first FOR Xed, and then FOR Yed, 40 my program LOADs I VERIFYed.50 I IF/THENed several dozen lines,60 and checked my STRINGs, my COSs and SINs. 70 My REMs were sound, my INPUTs clean,80 I ran a LIST and watched the screen 90 display the work that I had done.100 I held my breath then typed in RUN ...110 It didn’t go the way I thought.120 In fact, my work was all for naught130 (those hours hunched in concentration, 140 making notes and computations.)150 Nothing happened. All was moot. 160 My masterpiece would not compute.170 (J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who tries to think in BASIC ... occasionally.)180 endStrike down the star-struck, snaring mortalNews item: OVERLAND PARK, Kans. (UPI) – Agunman held a film projectionist hostage for two hours Tuesday and forced him to hand over a print of ‘Return of the Jedi.’A “gunman,” indeed. I smell a rat.A rat without lips; grotesque and fat.A rat with an army of odious minionswho follow his orders and share his opinions.A puff-eyed and corpulent, drool-dripping beast who mounts frozen heroes on his mantle-piece. Jabba! That scoundrel’s alive! He’s come back.He somehow survived Princess Leia’s attack. The Dark Side’s in Kansas! The battle’s resumed.Where’s Luke? And Han Solo? Without them we’re doomed. Jabba! That villain, reviled and accurst,of all of his crimes, this one’s the worst. Jabba the Hut, the scourge of the stars, is pirating movies for home VCRs!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who uses the Force ... occasionally.)hree cheers for the ‘swat’ teamBugs! Nasty critters! Swoopers and flitterers! They show up when I barbecue.They hum and they flutter, get stuck in the butter, and drown in the sweet honeydew.They make me feel itchy and grouchy and twitchy. They mess up my Junes and Julys.The “skeeters” with needles, the gnats and the beetles, the moths and the wasps and the flies.Nature’s designed ‘em so I’ll never find ‘em when they’re still too tiny to bite.It’s part of the plan of Bug vs. Man; it’s proper, I guess, and it’s right.But the rules have been bent since someone invent- ed a way to put Man in command.You know what I think? Those “Bugwhackers” stink. They’re unsporting and ought to be banned.That humming device is really not nice; it’s punishment cruel and unusual.If you must kill a pest who’s an unwanted guest a swatter is clearly more suitable.“Bugwhacker” traps and their unending “ZAPP!”s should make any sane soul realizethat the “cure” is far worse than the natural curse of “skeeters” and beetles and flies.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks man tries to be too civilized ... occasionally.)Summer tale: Jabbersail‘Twas Summer and the Sailing Set Did jibe and luffle in the waves The gear was stowed in lazarettes The brightwork gleamed ablaze.Beware the Stinkpot’s curse my son The smelly fumes, the pounding din Beware the speedboat’s wake, and shun The drunken fisherman.He took his daggerboard in hand Long time he eyed the mizzenmastHe fanged the pumps, he took the helm And made the jackline fast.And then he heard a horrid noiseA foul Stinkpot with smoke and flame! It wiffled past the channel buoysA-belching as it came.He veered, he flaked a painter line His whisker pole went snicker snack He heard it smash, and with a dash He came a-sailing back.And didst thou sink the foul Stinkpot Come tack and yaw my luffing boy O frabjous day, Alee, Belay!O grapnel fluke, O Joy!‘Twas Summer and the Sailing Set Did jibe and luffle in the waves The gear was stowed in lazarettes The brightwork gleamed ablaze.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who’s been in irons ... occasionally.)  For her 100th birthday, she needs more than a cakeNews item: A campaign is under way to raise $39 million to restore the Statue of Liberty in time for her 100th birthday in 1986. Without neededstructural repairs, the statue could be declared off limits to visitors.“Dear Friend, Sir or Madam: Can you spare a buck? I’m not on my knees, but I’m down on my luck.I’ve stood in this harbor – a symbol, a sign – for almost a century.That’s a long time.“I’ve stood in the cold, the rain and the sun; I’ve inhaled pollution. It hasn’t been fun.I’ve held out my torch so millions would seethat (at last) they’d arrived in the land of the free.“But symbols don’t last quite as long as a dream. I’m just steel and I’m copper. I’m less than I seem. My framework’s corroded, my arm’s getting weak, my foundation’s cracking, my staircases squeak.“The poor and the tired still come to my door bringing dreams and ambitions like millions before. But I’m getting tired. I’m proud, but I’m old.I can’t last forever. (That’s what I’ve been told.)“Don’t let my flame die in your generation. Help me look good for the big celebration. A buck’s all I want. I think it’s deserved.A penny for each of the years that I’ve served.“I stand for compassion, now stand up for me. Yours, very truly. (Signed) Miss Liberty.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who visits Liberty Island with his family ... occasionally. Contributions can be sent to the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Centennial Commission, PO Box 1986, New York NY 10018.)he past: memory’s prologueHe stops in every now and thento laugh and ask: “Remember when ...?” “I just dropped in,” he says, “to seeif any mail is here for me.”There’s always some, but less and less (and mostly junk, as one might guess.)The mail’s a ruse, a small charade to camouflage his one-man raid. Trading jokes and pleasantries. he gathers misplaced memories.He looks for clues, for signs or traces of once-familiar names and faces.He makes his rounds, he greets old friends. and when, too-soon, the visit endshe pauses near an ancient desk:a special place, his old address.Half his life he labored there(his battered desk, his battered chair.) Half a life for praise and wages, moving paper, filling pages.Half a life within these walls, minor triumphs, petty brawls. A special title, big promotion:the firm’s reward for his devotion.Half a life. And all that’s here are echoes of a long career.He shakes a hand, he says goodbye.and someone whispers “Who’s that guy?”The leaves are falling in the street, they swirl like time around his feet. He once was Someone here. Admired. His only title now: “Retired.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks about pensions ... occasionally.)