  It’s a short hop, from baby talk to teenage slangI miss the way our children spoke before they learned to read or spell. Their “baby talk” was fun to hear (though what it meant was hard to tell).Their “language” was uniquely theirs. They made up new words every day. Part giggle and part sound-effect, their language was a form of play.These days they know a lot of words (a lot more than we wish they knew).They now know words that sting and hurt and know just how to use them, too.They use their words as weapons now. They call each other “jerk” and “creep.” The word barrage goes on all day. (They call a truce to eat or sleep.)We once would brag when they would speak. We treasured every half-formed word.It’s hard to cheer for “hate your guts” or celebrate “you stupid nerd!”I sometimes wonder why we try to help our children learn to speak if all we get for all our workare adolescents shouting: “GEEK!”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who still calls cows “moo-moos” ... occasionally.)     Traded-in car’s a remembrance of things pastThe new car smells like ... innocence. Pristine. Untouched. Brand new.The old car smelled like baseball gloves, wet dogs and crab traps, too.The new car shines like just-struck coins. Its colors gleam and shimmer.The old car’s paint had faded out. Its chrome could get no dimmer.The new car gives us room to stretch. There’s space for eight to sit.The old car made us squeeze (And only five would fit.)The new car’s rich interior would suit a vain jet-setter.The old car had more rips and tears than some punk rocker’s sweater.But when I pass the dealer’s lot I always look away,convinced the old car’s standing there and calling to me: “Hey!Don’t leave me here! Come take me home. Come on! This isn’t fair.For years I started every time and took you everywhere!I never asked for very much, just filters and some oil.In winter you would never freeze; in summer never boil.I’m old, that’s all. Is that a crime? My drive train’s good as new!That glamour-bus you’re driving now can’t know the things I do.I know the songs you sing on trips.I know the roads you taketo work, to school, to baseball games. You’re making a mistake...”Our new cars smell like innocence. Pristine. Untouched. Brand new.Our old cars hold our yesterdays. That counts for something, too.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who lets his possessions give him guilt trips ... occasionally.)Payment due!Here’s to the Sixers – the tall and the taller –who learned how to dribble while they were still crawlers.Here’s to B.J. and C.J. and Andrew and Doe who run out of fans as they run out of clock.Poor Darryl, poor Hollins, poor Mix, and poor Cheeks; their spirits are willing, their fast breaks are weak.Poor Clint, and poor Bantam, and poor Billy C.; a forest of heartbreak; a skyline of grief.They’re destiny’s playthings on basketball courts: the underachievers of professional sports.Like Moses they lead us each year to the playoffs(where we cry like doomed lovers in a drama by Chekhov.)“What is it about them?” we wonder aloud. “Too old, too indifferent? Too timid, too proud?Are they jinxed? Are they cursed by the ghost of a fan? Do they relish the title of Pro Also-Rans?”They’ve brought down the Hawks, and slaughtered the Bucks.They’ve clipped the Bird’s wings, and here they are – stuck on edge of disaster, the brink of despair.They must drown the Lakers. It’s just and it’s fair.So please, Andrew, B.J. and C.J. and Doe, fight for those boards, leave L.A. in shock! We’ve had enough agony, bring on the fun. The bill’s overdue guys, you owe us this one.(J. D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who roots for the Sixers ... occasionally.)Team boasts a lofty earned fun average(Confidential report on the office softball team afterlast week’s practice game.)Our pitchers cannot find home plate, they’re either high or low.Our batters (when they hit the ball) forget which way to go.The guy at first, obsessed by girls, is always making passes.Our second baseman cannot bend; our shortstop needs new glasses. The outfield crew can’t calculate how hard they ought to runto catch a fly and make an out. (Last week they caught just one.)The guy at third still throws to home when he should throw to first.(We couldn’t pick an L.V.P.,we weren’t sure who was worst.) The offense will not win awards or bring our office glory.The defense has more gaps and holes than Reagan’s Contra story.Each grounder that gets through the hole, each pop-up dropped producesa cry of protest from the field and marvelous excuses:“My glove’s too small.” “The field’s too wet.” “My back’s still stiff from skiing.”“I just bought contact lenses and I still have trouble seeing.”In short, this team could be the BEST we’ve ever put together.If they can stay this bad all year, we’ll have more fun than ever!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks a great excuse is as good as a home run ... occasionally.)A relative beast stalks, sleeps, rages and eatsThe creature baffles everyone who sees how it behaves.One moment it’s subdued and shy. the next it’s loud and brave.Its sudden mood shifts make no sense. While in its peaceful stage.the slightest thing will set it off and turn its calm to rage.Its appetite’s enormous! Its patience? Paper-thin.It loves a mess and lots of noise. It lacks self-discipline.It’s alternately kind and cruel. The herd instinct stampedes it. Its loyalties can quickly change. (It bites the hand that feeds it.)Its self-esteem is crystalline and prone to break or shatter.When hurt, it can’t communicate exactly what’s the matter.Asleep, it seems so peaceful:relaxed, content, secure. Awake, it seems irrational:confused, distressed, unsure.The creature’s neither fish nor fowl, but somewhere in between.All parents recognize the breed:your standard, basic teen.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym is a New Jersey writer who thinks he understands his teenage son ... occasionally.)Music ‘victim’ prefers edible to the audibleNews item: A West German inventor has developed a way to make edible phonograph recordings on chocolate discs.Our taste in music shows our age. There are some things we can’t digest. Punk rock, for instance, leaves me cold. It does not soothe my savage breast.My son, however, loves the stuff. He plays it loud ‘til I complain:“Please turn it down or turn it off!It’s drilling holes right through my brain!”I’d never throw his records out, or hide them in a box somewhere.He’d just buy more. Besides, it’s not a “punishment” that’s right or fair.If they were chocolate, though, I might sneak in his room and take a bite ...(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who can tolerate the “Beastie Boys” ... occasionally.)Finding a site for an embassy no one wantsNews quote: ‘We should put the Soviets in a swamp somewhere. Let’s see if we can’t find one that’s got alligators in it.’ – Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd (concerned that a Washington hilltop location for a new Soviet embassy may encourage spying).There must be parts of Washington, a cynic friend suggests,as good as swamps where they can put unwelcome foreign guests.The IRS, for instance, has a fearful, loathsome spotwhere tax preparers must explain the “i’s” they did not dot.No sunlight breaks, no laughter’s heard within that dreary place.Perhaps the IRS could lease the Russians office space?If not, the CIA must have a dozen secret nooksthat can’t be found on any maps or any record books.Some crawlspace in a monument most tourists never seemight be the perfect place to hide a Russian embassy.If nothing else, the D.C. Zoocould house their charge d’affaires. A sign already marks the place.It says: “Don’t feed the bears.”The halls of Congress might be best. They’ve got the room to spare.It’s safer, too. (As we all know, they keep no secrets there.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks good fences build bad neighbors ... occasionally.)Vanishing food: Sunday brunch gang strikes again(With apologies to H. W. Longfellow.)Between quitting time every Fridayand the Monday, It’s-Back-To-Work crunch, comes a pause in the week’s occupation that is known as the Sunday Brunch.I hear in the aisles around me the clatter of dishes and knives,and the sound of a thousand feet moving, an army: kids, husbands and wives.From my corner I watch them all racing from omelettes to knishes to fruit, running back to their tables like pirates or rioters clutching their loot.“More sausage!” they squeal between mouthfuls. “Cold bacon!” they grumble out loud.They vacuum their dishes like Hoovers then elbow their way through the crowd. They reach in to grab a French cruller, or bagels with cream cheese and lox,not watching their diets or waistlines (they just watch the restaurant’s clocks). The goodies can’t hold out forever.The baked ham just gave up the ghost.It looks like they’ve rationed the cheesecake. No waffles? They’ll try the French toast.Their tastebuds are used up, exhausted.They don’t have a clue or a hunch if it’s hot, cold, sweet, sour or tasty. No matter. It’s just Sunday Brunch.Good manners or taste aren’t required, The object is volume, you see.And if I had to wait for an hour, they’d better leave something for me!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who bypasses the French pastry tray ... occasionally.)A sentimental journey down memory’s laneWe can’t go past the neighborhood unless we check. It’s understood:we have to take that small detour down streets we knew so well before, and drive by, surreptitiously.There’s something there we have to see. The car slows down.We stop and stare. The house we once called home’s still there. The House-That’s-Where-We-Left-It seems unreal somehow, like twilight dreams.It’s been re-painted (still off-white),but somehow, something’s not quite ... right.The shrubs we planted by the door have grown like weeds, 4 feet or more. The deck we built could use some stain. (I wonder if the basement drainstill overflows on rainy days?)The swing set’s gone.Well, no kid plays in that back yard.The lawn’s too neat.I wonder if the window seatis still upstairs. Remember that? On sunny days, the dog and cat would both hop up to take a nap!They’ve fixed the fence, repaired the gap where what’s-his-name went crashing through to catch a Frisbee someone threw.They moved the bench back by the tree. The driveway’s still not paved, I see.Inspection’s over.Time to go.We leave the house in silence, though, still baffled by the mystery.(What’s changed the most, we’ll never see when we drive by to stop and stare.What’s missing? Us.We don’t live there.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who agrees with Thomas Wolfe ... occasionally.)Returning cicadas need crash course on current eventsNews item: Having lived underground since 1970, a particularly large brood of cicadas is expected to make its presence known this spring. Mistakenly called locusts, the noisy insects emerge from theground once every 17 years to mate and to lay eggs.Hey, welcome back! I’ve made a listof all the news your brood has missed.I’ll keep it brief, a quick reviewof what the world’s been going through. A lot took place while you were gone. Where should I start? Ah! Vietnam.The war? It’s over. No one won.The protest movement’s finished. Done. The hippies now wear suits and ties, have kids, careers and itemizetheir income taxes, pay their bills, own microwaves and propane grills. Elvis died.The Beatles split.We’ve had three popes, and Nixon quit. The White House went to Gerald Ford, then Jimmy Carter came on boardA peanut farmer no one knew, Carter lost the White House, too. Carter wasn’t re-elected;Ronald Reagan got selected. Reagan.Yes, the movie star!But let’s slow down. I went too far. The Shah is out, Khomeini’s in;in Philly there’s no Bulletin; Mao is dead and Brezhnev, too;we all got shots to stop swine flu;a strange disease killed Legionnaires;the courts said schoolkids can’t say prayers; the Arabs tried to stop the flowof oil.That made prices goright through the roof. Inflation peaked at double digits. Commerce squeaked:–	Chrysler nearly closed its doors–	downtown merchants shut their stores–	family farms went up for sale–	wages froze to no avail. Disasters? Yes.We had our share:Volcanos, earthquakes here and there, droughts and mudslides, hurricanes, nuclear clouds and acid rains,leaking tankers, oil spills, pesticides that caused fish kills, forest fires, toxic gasses,plane and train and auto crashes.NASA’s funds were trimmed and slashed. They launched the shuttle! Then it crashed. Famine, war and revolutions,lots of problems, few solutions. The Middle East? It’s still a mess.(Some things never change, I guess.) What else is new? Well, killer bees, and AIDS, of course, a grim disease that makes love risky. (Sex roulette.) Hey, wait! Don’t go away. Not yet!You say you’ve heard enough? You’re sure? You’ll “try again in 2004”?You’ll try for what? I’m still not clear why you guys never stay up here.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who envies insects ... occasionally.)he ‘truth’ about the gypsy mothI do not love the gypsy mothhe makes me fume, he makes me froth. He eats my trees (he strips them bare) then thumbs a ride to who-knows-where. He chomps all day, he chomps all night, and in my sleep I hear him bite:“Ca-RUNCH! Ca-RUNCH!” Another tree! (I’m glad Joyce Kilmer cannot seethe way this pest defoliatesthe trees he loved to celebrate.) Who made this hungry caterpillar (ugly, savage forest-killer)?I think he was not spawned in heaven but in the lab that dreamed up Sevin.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who believes in conspiracies ... occasionally.)  his plan’s designed to make bureaucrats go from bad to verseNews item: WASHINGTON – A presidential task force has given administration departmentheads until March 20 to come up with ways to cut paperwork by 20 percent over the next four years.The government’s paperwork, everyone knows, is built to expand. Just like Topsy, it grows.A note from the president making suggestionswill come back attached to a page full of questions.A brief, one-line memo will somehow expandto cover more ground than the writer had planned. All forms must have footnotes to cover all bases, all options, exceptions, exemptions and cases.No study is final until it’s revised, redrafted, rewritten and reorganized by bleary-eyed people who sit at PC’sconverting plain English to bureaucratese.They can’t keep it simple. Direct. Short and sweet. “It just fills one page? Then it can’t be complete.” They’re frustrated authors, a word-drunken crew. They won’t use one word when a dozen will do. They can’t send out letters without an addendum. (“Don’t add a PS? How else do we end ‘em?”) This word-glut dilemma will only get worse.It’s time we insist that they all write in verse. It’s harder to write when a thing has to rhyme.It takes more precision; it takes much more time. If Oliver North had to rhyme when he wrote just think of the time he’d have had to devoteto rhyming the details of his secret plan to swap arms for hostages held in Iran.North’s serpentine plot might still be un-spun. Rhymes for “Khomeini”? Can you think of one?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks brevity and politics are mutually exclusive ... occasionally.)When snow falls,night-shift Dad sings the bluesWhat’s that outside? Is that ...? OH NO!! Another foot of *%#&!* snow?I’m sick of snow! I hate the stuff! It’s got to stop! I’ve had enough!The kids won’t go to school today, they’ll get another holiday!I’ll babysit (since I work nights).I’ll hear the screams and stop the fights.I’ll have to feed the hungry crew:my sons and all their buddies, too.Their friends (who know I’m home all day,) will ask their moms if it’s OKfor them to spend the snow day HERE. Their moms will say: “I guess so, dear.If it’s all right with Mr. E.”Their kids, of course, will not ask me.They’ll ask my sons, and they’ll say “Sure!” (They’ve pulled this little trick before.) They’ll wreck the house. (They call it play.) They won’t go out. “It’s cold!” they’ll say.Imagine, if you can, the noise produced by such a pack of boys! Imagine that, and then you’ll know the reason I DESPISE the snow.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who sticks pins in a voo-doo doll that looks like Willard Scott ... occasionally.)