Goodbye to ERA:Ms-sion impossible bites the dustSo long, ERA. They never understood you.On Wednesday last your deadline passed, some were pleased, a few were frantic.Though your cause was just, it was lost in the dust of rhetoric and semantics.Some thought you were a nasty thing, a vile, commie plot;and some were worried what you might bring; (what you were/what you were not.)Many were sure your time had come, a triumph for truth and freedom.But time ran out, and you were undone by the Schlaflys AND the Friedans.For IO long years they fought with words around and beneath your banner,and your simple truth was rarely heard in an uncontentious manner:“Sex does not matter in the eyes of the law, or it shouldn’t,” was what ERA said.But co-ed johns were what critics saw, and so now ERA is dead.As movements go, yours was slow to claim our hearts and souls.Your cause was doomed, it seems (although you’d never guess that from the polls.)Perhaps on some future 4th of Julymen and women will be equally treated.But till then double standards can still be applied. It’s the law. ERA’s been defeated.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who tries to understand national issues ... occasionally.)Crabs: revenge of the creatureI hate the crab, he makes me mad. He’s ugly and extremely mean.He steals my bait, he makes me wait; he nips my hands, he’s hell to clean.I loathe the crab.The way he walks is backwards – like an arsonist.His eyes stick out on beady stalks.I hate the crab, he tops my list of awful, nasty, ugly thingsthat I will banish when I’m King.His table manners are rude, perverse. (He nibbles toes, dead fish, and worse.) He does not sing, or bark, or sigh.There’s just one thing the crab provides:An outlet for primeval rages. Legal murder. Crabocide!I catch the things in wire cages, shove them into steaming pots.I watch them writhe and die in stages. I really like that part. A lot.But having seen “E.T.” I wonder:suppose the crab’s a cosmic blunder? What if he’s here from outer space, a stranded species, out of place?A nightmare’s ruined my sleep all week. It makes me tremble, makes me moan. A boiling Blue Claw starts to speak,and what he says is: “Crab phone HOME!”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who goes crabbing ... occasionally.)Was there life before Atari?What did we do before Atari?How did we manage to fill the space that cluttered up our scheduled lives with odds and ends of hours, days?What did we do with our hands and eyes? No missiles to launch? No bombs to drop? No alien fleets that we had to stop?No “Freeway,” no “Combat,” no “Missile Command?” No slim, little “joysticks” to clench in our hands?No twenty buck cartridges waiting to take us off on adventures, away to escape?What was life like before video games?What did folks do for their work-weary brains? They played records? and card games? went bowling? saw shows?They played badminton? backgammon? Had picnics? Read prose?Scrabble? Parchesi? Monopoly? Sorry?That’s what folks did when they had no Atari?They did jigsaws, went dancing and mastered Charades?They “talked” to each other? I forget: How’s that played?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who plays “Stampede,”“Space Invaders,” and “Kaboom” ... occasionally.)A !tness question that jogs the poetWhat drives the joggers, the bikers, and allof those sweat-soaked obsessives we sneeringly call ‘health nuts’ and ‘jock straps’ and ‘masochist types’with their battered old shoes and their slick ten-speed bikes?A legion of madmen (and madwomen, too) they’re the poets of fitness, a remarkable crew. They’ll pass up martinis for green Gatorade, and nibble rice crackers a mouse would evade.They are lean, they are haunted. They revel in pain.They’ll pedal and run in a cold, driving rain.The joggers, the bikers, and all of the othersare a joke to their friends and more corpulent brothers.The racquetball buffs and tennis crowds sneer when a glassy-eyed jogger or biker draws near.“You’re nuts!” they’ll exclaim (with a measure of truth). “You’re obsessed!” they will snort as they sip their vermouth.They have their own language, their own secret codes (the bikers, the joggers, and all of the others.)You’ve seen them, I know, on the sides of the roads with those mad, crazy eyes – like dreamers and lovers.“What drives them?” you wonder. “What brings them out here where no one is watchingand no one else cares?”I’ll tell you their secret – a small one for sure – a secret that powers the tough and the pure: they push on and on, on and on till they drop,they push ‘cause it feels so damned GOOD when they stop.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who jogs ... occasionally.)Where there’s smoke, there’s irePity the smoker – the fumer, the puffer,the downtrodden soul with the yellowing smile. Besieged and beleaguered, nagged by his mother,he hacks and he coughs and he walks countless miles (for Camels, for Winstons, for Salems, for Newports, for softpacks and fliptops and truckloads of others.)Pity the smoker – the fumer, the puffer. Society’s ruled that his craving’s a sin.He’s taxed for his packets of nicotine fixes he pays a stiff price for his carcinogens.He’s hooked and addicted, condemned and disowned by pure-air fanatics (strangers and friends).The poor, oppressed smoker has reason to groan: the state of New Jersey wants to soak him again.“It’s only a nickel,” you say with a waveof your non-smoking fingers. But is it quite fairto make the poor smoker pay more than his share?There ARE other sources of tax revenues.There are dozens of options the state could peruse:Tack on a tax on disposable diapersthat people dispose of in unseemly places.Why not a surcharge on new windshield wipers, or an annual levy on all bearded faces?Tax all the tricycles, surfboards, lawnmowers;take a bite out of people who purchase snow blowers. Tax the joggers, the nudists, the parents of twins;tax laundromat users, and all double chins.There are options, I tell you, alternative measuresto fatten the treasury without adding more pressures to the poor, oppressed smoker who has trouble enough with his stains, his burn marks, his mom and his cough.Spare the smoker, New Jersey – the fumer, the puffer. This time around make someone else suffer.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who smokes ... occasionally.)Believing is seeing through the eyes of the very youngNews item: A priest in Colonia, N.J., told a group of children attending a special Mass that Santa Claus is dead. Not only that, said Rev. Roznano Ferraro, there isn’t any North Pole or Rudolph the Red- Nosed Reindeer.Santa and Rudolph still land on our roof.We know they exist, and what’s more we have proof.On a night before Christmas not that long ago my wife put her coat on and whispered: “Let’s go.” Our sons were both nestled all snug in their beds with visions of drum sets and bikes in their heads. We went to the house of the woman next door and picked up the boxes we’d asked her to store.For hours we labored, assembling toys requested from Santa by both of our boys.We followed directions (“Bolt Frame to Part B...”) while hanging the lights and the balls on the tree.At last we were finished. “Looks perfect,” we sighed, then gathered the trash up and took it outside.Just four hours later, our sleep was cut short.Our sons (wide-awake) came to make their report: “Wake up! Quick! It’s Christmas, and Santa was here!” (Their wonder, how joyous; their joy, how sincere.) “And Santa is real, Dad!” the 6-year-old cried.“He left all the boxes toys come in outside!!”When logic shouts, “No,” and pure faith whispers, “Yes,” then somewhere between them you’ll find truth, I guess. With faith you’ll see diamonds where others see dirt. (But when faith’s uncertain, some proof doesn’t hurt.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who mails letters to the North Pole... occasionally.)Gadget worshipper gets just desserts: he’s put on holdThe Man Of The Future lived life by remote:his home, car and office, and even his boat. The M.O.T.F. was a gadget collector.His car was equipped with a radar detector.His key chain would beep at the clap of his hands; his house lights turned on at his spoken commands. He ordered his pizza by cellular phone;his lawn would be watered when he wasn’t home.His dog wore a collar that drove away fleas by making a sound like a million small bees.The wall by his bed had a long row of switches that gave him the power of wizards and witches: Switch A was for music; Switch B was TV;his burglar-detectors were tied to Switch C. His office was wired. His meetings and calls were all tape-recorded by “bugs” in the walls. His boat tracked the weather by satellite dish; a sonar transponder would help him find fish.He lived life remotely, through switches and wires: Electro-computerized Life Simplifiers.One day, while out sailing, his boat sank at sea. Alone, lost and drowning, he cried: “Lord, save me!” A thin shaft of sunlight burst out of a cloud. “We’re not in the office,” a voice said out loud.“We’re sorry We missed you.We just stepped away. At the tone, leave a message. And have a nice day.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who walks across the room to change TV channels ... occasionally.)Turkey’s revenge: a month of meals that taste familiarTHESE are the times that try men’s souls. Turkey soups and casseroles!Turkey omelettes, turkey stew, turkey burgers, tacos, too.Meals with names like Chef’s Surprise? Merely turkey (in disguise).Having paused to count out our blessings, mealtime now becomes depressing.Turkey chips in cream on toast. Turkey hash. (I hate that most.) Turkey chile. Quiche. Enough! When did Pilgrims eat such stuff?I’m not thankful? Sure I am. Christmas Day we’re having ham!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wishes the Indians had taught the Pilgrims how to make cheese quarter-pounders ... occasionally.)Visiting microbe has him singing those ol’ flu bluesMy nose, it is stuffy. My bones, they all ache. I’ve tried every cold pill a body could take.I swallowed some Contac. I tried Dristan, too. They haven’t done nothin’. I still got the flu.My vision, it’s blurry. My throat’s raw and dry.If my Mom could see me, she’d break down and cry. I sniffle and shiver, I sweat and I sneeze.and if people are talkin’ they sound just like bees.Oh, the Flu Bug’s in my blood stream. He’s really got me down.And these antihistamine blues they just keep a-hangin’ ‘round.I don’t feel like readin’ or watchin’ TV. I’m too busy drownin’ in my misery.I hate chicken soup now. I eat it all day.It ain’t done a thing yet.The bug’s here to stay. It won’t last forever. Of that much I’m sure.One day that ol’ Flu Bug will walk out my door. He’ll leave without warnin’, no drawn-out goodbyes, and turn up at your house to holler:“Surprise!”Oh, the Flu Bug’s in my blood stream. He’s really got me down.And these antihistamine blues they just keep a-hangin’ ‘round.Just wait.You’ll have your turn to keep him amused. You can’t keep him out, he will not be refused.He’ll get inside somehow, he’ll slip through a crack, and nibble your blood cells: a corpuscle snack.He’ll stomp on your body, all night and all day, no pills ever stopped him or kept him away.You can’t ward him off munching Vitamin C.The Flu Bug’s a monster. Please take it. From me.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonder if people in Asia get the American Flu ... occasionally.)Silence is unseflling for biggest boosters as band season endsNo band shoes to polish by dawn’s early light? No waiting in parked cars for buses all night? No cookies or candy or hoagies to sell?No cow bells to rattle; no school cheers to yell? No ‘love grams’? No raffles? No cold bleacher seat? No musical triumphs? No sore, blistered feet?No section rehearsals? No trophies to win? No standing in rain getting soaked to the skin? No chauffeuring service? No meals on the run? No straining our eyes for a glimpse of our son? No waiting for judges to add up the scores?No drumrolling thunders; no trumpeting roars? No flag-flapping flurries of motion and grace?(No heart-breaking squeak of a note out of place?) No glorious music from kids, proud and good,who pushed themselves harder than we ever would?The stadium’s empty; the bleachers are bare; no traces remain of the bands that were there.The music has faded; no drum majors stand to signal the beat with the wave of a hand.The band front is scattered, the flags packed away. Our schedules are hopelessly ‘normal’ today.At times, sure, we muttered: ‘How long will this last?’ We wished it was over, and all in the past.But now that it’s ended (at least for this year) we band parents, strangely, feel no urge to cheer. No matter how often we grumbled out loud,our kids did the hard work.They made us feel proud.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who falls asleep on the Band Parents’ bus ... occasionally.)Atomic theory:those liflle guys get no respectNews item: Physicists at the University of Washington say they have actually witnessed a “quantum jump” by cooling trapped atoms in a vacuum chamber to a temperature of a fewthousandths of a degree above absolute zero andthen bombarding them with a beam of laser light.Pity the atoms.We trap, zap and crash them; blind, choke, electrify, torture and smash them; spin them half-silly; tickle and tease them;drop, drown, de-magnetize, cripple and freeze them; run them through cyclotrons night after night;soak them in chemicals; bomb them with light; keep them in test tubes, lock them in jars; force them to give up the secrets of stars; squeeze them together to generate heat; bury their corpses in tons of concrete.Not once do we give them the thanks that is owed. No wonder the poor things just sometimes explode!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who worries about man’s inhumanity to atoms ... occasionally.)In today’s modem Army, some things are just not what they used to be ...News item: The U.S. Army will spend $15.6 million for 320,000 M-9 weapon systems. Each M-9 costs$49.50 and is designed to perform what Army planners call ‘multiple individual soldier tasks.’ The new weapon replaces the Army’s old $18 bayonet which was designed only to kill enemy soldiers. The M-9 has a serrated edge that sews through rope, wood, ice and aircraft skin. The weapon can be used as a wire cutter and the glass-filled handle isinsulated to withstand electrical shocks of up to 240 volts. Each M-9 also includes a built-in bottle opener.In yesterday’s Army, a Bayonet Drillmeant charging at dummies and screaming out: “KILL!!” Today’s modern soldiers must master new skills.They turn out with M-9s for Bottle Cap Drills. They wrestle their “enemies” down to the ground and pop off their tops without making a sound.It’s grueling, exhausting.The drill sergeants roar: “This may save your life if we’re ever at war!”Their thumbs, how they throb! Their wrists, how they ache! It’s painful, but vital. Survival’s at stake.To pass basic training, they must pop a cap (while wearing a blindfold) in two seconds flat. The drill sergeants drive their recruits to excel.They’ve popped a few bottles.They know war is hell.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who could have used a bottle opener when he was in the Army ... occasionally.)  Running on the treadmill of time ...The gerbil in those “habi-trails” are metaphors – for us.Before dawn breaks, our oldest son runs off to catch his bus.My wife is next. She runs around the still-dark house, a blurof mother/wife activities:cook, maid and treasurer.She packs our lunches, picks up socks, and while she’s doing thatshe writes a check to pay a bill, gets dressed, and feeds the cat.Our youngest son crawls out of bed as Mom flies out the door.We shower. Dress. Eat breakfast. Leave. The clock says 8:O4.Our habi-trails don’t intersect.We go four separate ways to work, to classes,band rehearsals, clubs and PTAs.We run in place.We race around on spinning habi-wheels.At night we scamper home again to share our habi-meals.What little time remains is filled with homework, household chores.We tidy up our habi-rooms and habi-corridors.We watch some habi-TV shows, then go to habi-bed.Our habi-family knows that there’s a busy day ahead.(In truth we like our habi-trail. It’s not too cramped or small. A perfect fit? Of course it is. We built it, after all.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who exercises by jogging on a treadmill ... occasionally.) Raising parents requires patience (and a liflle time)Last year, we rocked his fears away,and watched each small accomplishment: “He said a word? Alert the press!”“He walked two steps? A Great Event!”We taught him “green” and “big” and “moon.” We taught him “cold,” “yes,” “no,” and “hot.” We showed him rainbows, lightning, stars.He showed us wonders we forgot.Last month, we hugged his fears away, and watched him change before our eyes. He learned the way to hold a spoon,and learned the ways of butterflies.We taught him “ice cream,” “climb” and “bike.” We taught him “sharing,” “help” and “friend.” We showed him beaches, swings and slides.He showed us how to play Pretend.Last week, we kissed his fears awayand watched him take the bus to school. He learned to read and write and count, and learned the hurt of ridicule.We taught him baseball, Cub Scouts, chores. We taught him grace, civility.We showed him how to plan ahead. He showed us spontaneity.Last night, we talked his fears away and watched him study for a test.He’s learned to cope with love and pain. He’s learned to need us less and less. “We’ve taught him well,” we tell ourselves. We taught him all we could instill.We’ve shown him how to stand alone. He’s shown us time does not stand stillTomorrow, when he goes away,the joys he brought us will not dim.We showed him life; he showed us trust. He taught us more than we taught him.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks raising parents is the world’s toughest job ... occasionally.)Basic mathcan be cosmic experienceNews item: Two mathematicians in England and Portugal say they have solved “the Poincare conjecture,“ a baffling mathematical problem whose solution could give physicists a clue to the unseen shape of the universe. Their solution to the 80-year- old problem fills I23 pages.At matters mathematical I’ve never been a whip.At restaurants I can’t work out how much I ought to tip.I cannot balance checkbooks (as my patient wife well knows). I use my fingers when I add (and sometimes use my toes).My kids don’t come to me for help with homework anymore.(I’m never sure if 9 times 6 is really 54.)At algebraic formula I’m clearly not a whiz.I couldn’t start to calculate what shape the cosmos is.It’s good to know what shape we’re in, I’m sure we all agree.But someone’d better check their math. (As long as it’s not me.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who remembers the Pythagorean theorem .. occasionally.)he neighbor’s new house is ‘almost’ perfectThe folks next door are moving soon. A bigger house.They need more room.Their family’s grown.They need more space. Last month they found the “perfect” place:–	separate bedrooms, none too small,–	deep, pile carpets, wall-to-wall,–	a panelled den, a fireplace,–	a modern house with charm and grace.–	a yard to let the kids run wild,–	a kitchen fit for Julia Child,–	a redwood deck, a built-in grill,–	more closet space than they can fill,–	a big garage with room to sparefor cars and bikes and sleds and chairs.We’re glad they found the home they need. The house next door, we all agreed,was just too small.They had to move. We’ve seen the new place.We approve. It’s everything they’ll need. And more. There’s just one flaw: we aren’t next door.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who dreads meeting new neighbors ... occasionally.)In search of the dog that isn’t thereThe trail of the dog that isn’t there grows narrower day by day:–	a leash that hung on a stairway hook discreetly packed away–	a water bowl tucked out of sight–	flea collars and dog shampoos thrown out along with rawhide bones and chewed-up jogging shoes–	some strands of hair (distinctly hers) the vacuum cleaner missed–	a plastic mouse whose plaintive squeak the dog could not resist.The weekly shopping route’s been changed.We now avoid the aisleswhere dot food cans and “Yummies” stand in ordered rows and piles.Some nights, I still expect to find her waiting at the door.(Some nights I’d swear I hear her tail “thump-thump”ing on the floor.)The space she left within us all is closing, as it must.Her name is rarely mentioned now, her absence not discussed.But the trail of the dog that isn’t there won’t vanish as some trails do.At least not the trail she cut through our lives while she was passing through.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who misses being taken for a walk ... occasionally.)Musical mufl knows when it’s Miller timeNews item: Fudge, a boxer dog in Shrewsbury, England, swallowed his master’s musical watch, and for several days his stomach played “American Patrol” every 12 hours. The dog gave vent to Glenn Miller’s memorable melody at 6:45 every morning and evening. A vet who examined Fudge said the dog’s digestive juices were disintegrating the watchand advises his owner to wait for a natural ending to the problem.Here’s to ol’ Fudge:a critic, a judge,whose musical tastes were precise. He sniffed at punk rock, Beethoven and Bach.Glenn Miller, he thought, though, was nice.Ol’ Fudge came alive at 6:45when his stomach would play reveille.He’d trot down the street to a Glenn Miller beat,a “watch-dog” quite literally.The people he passed stood stunned and aghast,amazed how he carried a tune.But the dog’s biggest fan was a hard-drinking manwho slept near the corner saloon.As Fudge played his song the drunk hummed along,recalling the days of his youth. “Wot them rock singers play can’t touch that,” he’d say.“Things ain’t like they was, ‘at’s the truth.Since them Liverpool boys it’s all screamin’ ‘n’ noise.A commie plot, ‘at’s wot I think. It’s all rubbish. A waste.But my friend, you ‘as taste.Come on, let me buy you a drink.”And then he’d toast Fudge:a critic, a judge,whose musical tastes were precise. He sniffed at punk rock, Beethoven and Bach.Glenn Miller, he thought, though, was nice.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who is in the mood for Glenn Miller tunes ... occasionally.) Playing against time is always a losing gameWhen I was very young I thought “Red Light/Green Light” was fun. I’d turn and spin, then try to catch opponents in mid-run.They’d run toward base on tippytoes. “Red Light” I’d shout.They’d “freeze.” Whoever moved went back to Start. (They couldn’t scratch or sneeze.)These days I play that game with Time to measure where I’ve been.I spin around to see what’s changed. Then close my eyes again.“Green Light!” My son’s in nursery school. “Red Light!” He’s 6 feet tall.“Green Light!” He’s in his crib, asleep. “Red Light!” He’s at the mall.“Green Light!” He thinks I’m wonderful. “Red Light!” He says I’m fat.“Green Light!” We bring a kitten home. “Red Light!” Take out the cat.“Green Light!” My hair is ‘6Os-long. “Red Light!” It’s getting gray.“Green Light!” We meet the folks next door. “Red Light!” They’ve moved away.“Green Light!” We rent a furnished room. “Red Light!” We own a home.“Green Light!” No need to exercise. “Red Light!” I jog and groan.“Green Light!” “Red Light!” I play the game though Time, of course, must win.It doesn’t freeze when I yell: “Red!” It just keeps closing in.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks Time cheats... occasionally.)Summer’s end breeds a panic in the streetsThe playground is crowded, the swings at the parkare loaded with children from dawning to dark.The streets are a Babel, a riot of noise,as panic-struck children– distraught girls and boys – go racing down sidewalks and climbing up treesand plead with their parents:“Just one more game? Please??”They run along beaches like small hurricanes, aware (to the second) how much time remains. Their ballgames at sandlots are somber, not fun.Each batter’s now praying:“Please! One last home run!” They cram a whole week’s worth of joy in each day.They measure their pleasure; they work at their play.Un-uttered, the dread thought that no one dares speak.The reason mom’s smiling:School opens next week!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who gets a sunburn on the last day of his vacation ... occasionally.)Speeder’s Digest:the one-minute masterpieceNews item: An American publishing company has introduced a series of audio-cassette tapes of extremely abridged versions of literarymasterpieces. “Moby Dick,” Herman Melville’s 710- page classic, has been reduced to a one-minute audiotape by eliminating Melville’s “rambling soliloquies.”A minute for a classic book? Who has that kind of time? Let’s cut it to IO seconds, and try to make it rhyme:Moby DickWeird Captain Ahab stalks a whale that once bit off his leg.The whale’s too much for Ahab, though. It takes him down a peg.Don QuixoteA would-be knight heads off in search of damsels in distress.His dreams turn into knightmares.He breaks down. Can’t take the stress.HamletA Danish prince goes off his nut. (His uncle’s killed his dad.)The kid sees ghosts; his sister dies. “The Cosby Show” (but sad).Gone With The WindA Southern belle learns war is hell, incivil and unfair.She says her husband has no class. He, frankly, doesn’t care.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks you can have too little of a good thing ... occasionally.)Would-be socialist makes her moooove to greener pasturesNews item: Else, a West German cow that triggered an East-West border incident in May when she wandered over to East Germany, has done it again. On Tuesday, the cow’s owner in Gartow, West Germany, had to go to East Germany again and pay another 150 marks ($70) to retrieve her. Else had to swim to get to Germany, crossing the e Elbe River which forms the border between the two German states in that region.The socialists’ grass could not be surpassed in the eyes of old Else, the cow.So she headed that way, a confirmed emigre, determined to get there somehow.Reluctant to wait or to join the debate over which of two systems was best,she made up her mind, leaving Gartow behind. Else crossed to the East from the West.Neither rivers nor wires could block her desires, she dreamed of the socialists’ grasses,hoping deep in her heart that soon she’d be part of the Leninist-Marxist cow masses.And did they reward her for crossing the border, for seeing the socialist light?Defection had failed. Poor Else was jailed and shipped back to Gartow that night.Despondent, depressed, Else’s back in the West, distraught that the East would expel her.What happened was sad; and it’s really too bad that nobody bothered to tell her.East Germany’s masters protect their green pastures the way they “protect” East Berlin.So they haven’t a clue about what they should do when anyone tries to sneak in.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks the cows of the world should unite ... occasionally.)Turning the pages on the calendar of modern livingWe once measured time in more natural ways, observing small shifts in the seasonal tide.We knew fall was near by the length of the days, we knew it was spring when the swallows arrived. We no longer watch the “old” seasons unfold.What nature we see now, exists on TV.Our world is a mall, and it’s climate-controlled. We calculate seasons materially:The first day of spring, as we all recognize,is the day the new bathing suits go on display. Summer’s half over? Must be. School supplies are back in the stores (to our children’s dismay). It’s autumn? Of course. All the new cars are in, and snow-tire ads have begun to appear.It’s winter, for sure, if the health clubs begin to warn us that bathing-suit season is near.Who cares how the moon and the planets align? That stuff’s for the birds or the turtles and whales. The Marketing Clock is the way we keep time.We measure our seasons in terms of the sales.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who looks forward to Cut Your Heating Bills season ... occasionally.)Understanding takes the sting out of jelly!shNews item: An “invasion“ of Lion’s Mane Jellyfish is driving bathers off New Jersey’s beaches, but a biologist for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service says the creatures shouldn’t be blamed. Jellyfish are “planctonic,” Bill Lang explains. They lack a self-propulsion system and are moved along by the winds and currents. “They shouldn’t be held accountable,” Lang says.The jellyfish is much-maligned. We run when it comes near.Bill Lang says we should sympathize:“The poor thing cannot steer.” It has no fins like other fish,it cannot change direction.It has no ears to hear our shrieks and make a course correction.It has no eyes to look ahead, it has no nose to smell us.It cannot warn us when it’s here, it’s not equipped to tell us!Deaf, blind and dumb, it floats along, a tourist on the ocean,dependent on the waves and winds for aimless locomotion.The jellyfish does not deserve its nasty reputation.It gladly shares the beach with us when it goes on vacation.I’ll try to like the jellyfish next time I’m at the beach.(I’d like it more, though, if it wore a bathing suit at least.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who feels silly putting meat tenderizer on his legs ... occasionally.)‘Boom-box’ buffs march to beat of different drummerNews item: The city council in Cohoes, N.Y., has passed a law that makes it illegal to play “boom boxes” on city streets or in city parks. The law followed complaints about young people walking in streets blaring loud rock music from the portable stereos. Anyone convicted under the new law is subject to a fine of up to $500. The boom box may be confiscated by police for a second offense.To think that they may never hear a boom box in Cohoes. Oh, dear.A boom box makes much more than noise.It helps still-awkward girls and boys who need it to communicate.(The boom box helps them compensate for unacquired social skillslike speech.) Shy Jacks and even shyer Jills might never meet. Or mate. Or breed.The boom box fills a vital need that Darwin would appreciate:a primitive, acoustic “bait”that draws shy teens to rendezvous with one another. Nature strews enough sharp thorns along love’s way. We should not make boom boxers pay a fine for making too much noise.How else will awkward girls and boys locate each other in a crowd?They are not brave.They must be loud.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who hides the batteries from his son’s boom box ... occasionally.)