Yesterday’s hero is cut to size as kids grow upJust yesterday, it seemed, my sons could never see too much of me. For “Best Friend of The Year” award, I was their only nominee.They shared their smallest joys and fears, they shared their toys and games as well. They’d run to greet me at the door.“Dad’s home!” “I saw him first!” they’d yell. They’d come to me for help, advice,and ask me all the How’s and Why’s of kites and slingshots, paper planes, of fishing lures and fireflies.My dumbest jokes would always draw unbridled laughter, loud and long.I was their Hero.Teacher. Friend.All-knowing. Brave and never wrong. These days, it seems, I’m in the way. They lock their doors (with me outside) and rarely want my companyor what advice I might provide.When I get home, no cheers are heard. My best jokes draw a sickly groan.At movies now, they’d rather I sat far from them and all alone. All fathers learn this fact of life:Dad’s greatness shrinks as children grow. That armor suit is only tin,and Dad is just the last to know.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who forgets he’s not supposed to hug his sons in front of their friends ... occasionally.)Crafty criflers creep, crawl and cramp a lifestyleNews item: The U.S. Department of Agriculture is monitoring the spread of Asian cockroaches which entered the United States in 1984 aboard a cargo ship docked in Tampa, Fla. Unlike the more familiar German cockroaches, Asian roaches occur in huge numbers outdoors, are extremely strong fliersand are attracted to light at sunset. Asian roaches have taken over 500 square miles of territory, making outdoor night life impossible for Tampa-St. Petersburg area residents, according to a USDA spokesman. Became they swarm outside – 30,000 to 100,000 of them were found on a one-acre lot – and because they can fly up to about I20 feet per day, it is impossible for a homeowner to wipe them out by spraying his typical quarter-acre suburban lot.The fire ant is headed north, and so’s the killer bee.If flying roaches come, I quit. Who needs this misery?The greenheads spoil my summer fun. The aphids ruin my garden.The termites undermine my deck (and never beg my pardon.)The gypsy moths still eat my trees. Mosquitoes still torment me.My cat still brings home ticks and fleas. More bugs? No thanks. I’ve PLENTY!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks the insects are winning ... occasionally.)Nature’s flaw commands a law for faster reliefNews item: A California lawmaker has introduced legislation that would require public places such as theaters to provide more rest room facilities for women than for men.If women need more ... seats than men, the sexes are not equal, then.How can we press for equal pay then turn around and calmly say that women, heeding Nature’s calls, cannot make do with equal ... stalls?I’m sure they need the extra ... spaces.I’ve stood in line at public places and women’s lines are always longer.Does this not prove that men are stronger? More controlled? More stoic? Tougher?Less obliged to stand and suffer? Darwin, doubtless, would not snicker. “Men,” he’d say,“are merely quicker.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who is grateful for euphemisms ... occasionally.)It’s true:Eve was the mother of us allNews item: Biologists who have analyzed genes in the cells of people from all the world’s major racial and ethnic groups claim that about 200,000 years ago there lived a woman who was the maternal ancestor of every human being alive today.Before you start to honk your horn because you think I drive too slow; before you roll your window down and start to tell me where to go; before you shake your fist and shout, or hurl abuse and scorn at me; before you lose your self-control and curse my family’s pedigree, remember, please, dear cousin mine:My family tree is also thine.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks fondly of his great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great- great-great-great-great-great-great-great-grandmother ... occasionally.)New inventiontakes the fun out of $shingNews item: The U.S. patent Office has issued patent number 4,627,187 to the designer of a high voltage fishing hook. When a fish bites the device, a jolt of electricity knocks the fish unconscious, allowing it to float to the surface for easy recovery.Hemingway would not approve. Electro-shock’s not fishin’,and angler’s not another name for licensed electrician.A fish deserves a sporting chance. That’s fair, it seems to me.What sport is there in zapping fish with electricity?No special skill or subtlety, no patience is requiredto throw a switch and stun a fish with bait that’s been hot-wired.Of all the charges facing man in Nature’s highest court,the grayest ones are those for crimes we justify as “sport.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who uses a manuallyoperated fly rod ... occasionally.)On the Rolodex of life, all must take their turnsSorting through the Rolodex:a melancholy chore.Removing cards for those whose lives don’t touch ours any more.“This one moved to Illinois.” “He’s the guy they fired.”“This one died.” “That one quit.” “This one just retired.”Paper tombstones lacking graves, the winnowed cards now show the numbers and addresseswe no longer need to know.Somber, terse remindersthat we’re all just passing through, the cards are often all that’s left of lives that we once knew.The lesson of the Rolodex:“What is won’t always be.”Don’t send to know for whom it turns. It turns for thee. And me.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders if John Donne had a Rolodex ... occasionally.)A modest request: put back the ‘New’I cringe and I shudder, I growl and I groanwhen a newscaster using that solemn news tone refers to New Jersey as “Jersey” out loud.I’m silly I guess. Silly and proud.But it sounds like a rude and an arrogant slightwhen a “newsman” can’t manage to get the name right. New Jersey’s the place where I work and I live.New Jersey’s my home and I can’t forgive that casual trimming of New from the nameof a state rich in history. It’s more than a shame. It’s callous, demeaning, it’s smug and improper.(And it doesn’t say much for the thoughtless New-chopper who wants our attention and wants our respectbut can’t even bother to get names correct.) Jersey’s an island, a sweater, a cow.New Jersey’s a state, and I don’t know how that impertinent shorthanding ever began,but it’s time that it stopped. It’s time for a ban. Put the New in New Jersey. A modest request. (No South Jersey, either. No North, East or West.)We’re in this together through thick and through thin, and New Jersey’s the name of the state that we’re in.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who goes to see Broadway shows in York ... occasionally.)A salute to a boywho climbed the mountainHis hat was too big and his ears both protruded.If you saw him that night you might have concluded that here was a kid who would never fit in.He sat by himself with a brave, gap-toothed grin, and though I was smiling, I felt my heart acheas I wondered if scouting might be a mistake.“Some kids are different,” I thought as I watched him. “They don’t all like soccer, play football or swim.Some kids are quiet, thoughtful and shy,don’t mix well with others or won’t even try.” He was new as the dew on a thin blade of grass, and his uniform lacked all the ribbons and brassthat the “veteran” scouts wore with obvious pride. He scrunched in his chair, like he wanted to hide. That first awkward meeting had left me with doubt: Was it really important to be a Cub Scout?But time passed, three years worth of scouting went by and last night my doubts were replaced by a sigh.He sat with the “veterans” off to one side, surrounded by friends, looking quite ... dignified.They joked and compared all the pins that they’d earned, the progress they’d made, the lessons they’d learned.His badges and ribbons he proudly displayed to a new kid who seemed just a trifle afraid.“He’s done it,” I realized. “Grown up some. Survived. He’s climbed his first mountain. He’s a scout, bona fide.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who remembers how to tie sheepshanks and bowline hitches ... occasionally.)  Best Christmas present re- captures spirit of Christmas past‘Tis the month before Christmas, and on my TV the holiday-killers have started their spree.Each sponsor is driven to add a few shots of holiday “flavor” to each of his spots:Snowflakes for soap pads, sleighbells for beer; you’ll probably see Santa sell trash bags this year.All that’s missing it seems is a clown who’ll recite: “A Merry McChristmas to your appetite!”And ads for dumb toys are clogging the air.I know it’s good business, but is it quite fair to plant sweet obsessions in childhood’s eyesso that parents who love are obliged to devise new ways they can juggle their debts to acquire the junk that their children have learned to desire?The sappy kid specials that drown and obscure the meaning of Christmas are back by the score. Every elf, cat and dog has his own Christmas show that purports to tell stories of “long, long ago” when Santa was kidnapped, or Frosty was lost,or a nasty old villain had melted Jack Frost.They say little of love, and nothing of Jesus.It’s the Gospel of Nielsen: “What sells is what pleases.” The shows are all “silly” and “cute” and “delightful,” but the crimes they commit are decidedly frightful.They bury the story of Christmas in fluff;they’d probably make Scrooge yell: “Enough is enough!”Each year it gets worse, and each year we despairhow we’ve lost part of Christmas “somehow” and “somewhere.”There’s a way to recapture the holiday spirit(but I somehow suspect that you won’t want to hear it). From now through December unplug your TV.Why spoil Christmas? Turn it off and be free of commercialized drivel and idiocies.Get close to your family, build real memories. It’s the season for giving, for loving and caring.And the best Christmas gift is the time you are sharing.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who talks to the ghost of Christmas past ... occasionally.)   Odes and ends from a poet’s scrapbagDead Ends: (A mini-anthology of would-be- profundities that went from bad to verse.)Does anyone understand Reaganomics? Or is it a joke by a stand-up comic,like: “Who’s on first and Watt’s at Interior?” It’s as clear as the mud in Lake Superior.Winter is a-comin’ in.I’d better buy some kerosene,and chop some wood and close the storms and check my winter uniforms:thick gloves and coats and sweaters, too, and drugs to fight off colds and flu.Spring is a robin, and Summer’s a rose,but Winter’s chapped lips and a wet, runny nose.News item: Scientists have unearthed more than 80 well-preserved human skeletons from the ruins of an ancient Roman city near Pompeii. The skeletons will enable anthropologists to learn much about the general health, demography and occupations of the people who lived there.Dem bones, dem bones, dem dry bones. I’m glad dem bones ain’t my bones.I hope I turn to limestone before they dig up me.My memory gets weaker the older I get.I think that means something, but what, I forget.There once was a girl from Milmay who made love in a curious way:(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who finishes what hestarts ... occasionally.) A quick, giant step for mankind, poetryNews item: Physicists at Germany’s Institute for Heavy Ion Research have created an atom ofelement I09, filling in one more space in the periodic table of the elements. The new element, created in a UNILAC accelerator in Darmstadt, Germany, existed for less than five-thousandths of a second. A name for the new element has not been announced.HappyBirthdaytoyou. HappyBirthdaytoyou. HappyBirthdaydearelementlO9, Hap...(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who tries to humanize science ... occasionally.)Only in America: Pac-Man, Frisbees, E.T. and Pet RocksThis is the land of the gimmick and fad. You can’t buy a Pet Rock in dull Stalingrad. Punk Rock means nothing in poor Tuvalu, and you won’t find E.T. dolls in Lima, Peru.If you want to play Pac-Man stay out of Iran,and don’t look for Smurfs should you visit Sudan. Mongolia’s hordes have no Mood Rings to wear. and they can’t Dial-A-Joke on the phones in Zaire.“Val-Speak’s” unspoken in downtown Rangoon(there’s no Burmese verb form for “gag with a spoon.”) The French are too-proud, (or maybe too snobby)to fall for the charms of sweet Holly Hobbie.Peking has no Edsels and no bumper stickers, no surfers, no Big Macs, no flick of my Bic-ers. For most of the world, life is sad and quite grim, and money’s too precious to waste on a whim.But despite Reaganomics, we’re doing OK. We still have some money for fun and for play.So don’t sneer at fads, or call them preposterous.They prove we’re not somber.They prove that we’re prosperous.We’re goofy? We’re silly? That’s good and that’s proper (in the land of the Frisbee and great Deely Bobber!)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who works out on his bongo board while wearing his Nehru jacket ... occasionally.)Cold truth is due, in a dose or twoThe woollybears have much more hair, than they had in ‘81,and scientists have longer lists of spots seen ‘round the sun.Wasps and bees who nest in trees have claimed the tallest branches. The natural seers are grim this year in forests, farms and ranches.The fog they see in Tennessee means: ‘Snow and ice are coming.’The signs are there, the portent’s clear:this Winter will be numbing.But I had a hunch about Winter’s punch before the seers had spoken.I already knew an infallible clue:my VW’s heater’s broken.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who worries about weather forecasts ... occasionally.)His home’s a castle, but he’s the pawnI’ll sell you my house, and he’ll sell me his. That’s how the game’s played, that’s how it is I get a bigger house, you get a cellar,he gets a swimming pool: three happy sellers. An ancient transactional domino game,the prices have changed but the rules are the same: First you sell your house, then I sell mine.More house for more money: just sign on the line.It all began once when a cavewife complainedthat her cave was too small or leaked when it rained. But the cave just next door, now, that was a Home! So the cavehusband offered the neighbors a bone-handled hatchet and flintstone if they would move out.They did, and the cavewife discovered no doubt that the new cave was nice, but in need of repair.“The ceilings are cracked!” “There’s moss everywhere!”And the cavekids complained that their friends all had “rooms” and “kitchens” with vents to remove smoke and fumes.Poor cavedad was doomed, his descendants were, too. Forever – since then – we’ve been in transitu.You’re no sooner settled and at home in a place when your cavewife decides that the yard’s a disgrace, or the neighborhood’s rotten ...Whatever the reason, the message is clear: it’s house-hunting season.(The real estate agents and lawyers will giggle as they dot all our i’s and initial each squiggle. Their labors are simple, their profits are clear,our commissions will pay for their limos this year!) Will some anthropologist answer this please:Why didn’t my great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great grandparents stay in the trees?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a southern New Jersey writer who grunts when his cavewife shows him ads for new homes ... occasionally.)When frost’s on pumpkins it’s time for the promisesOctober’s the goofiest month of the year,the month when we all wear a grin ear to ear.It’s the time when we grownups are asked to believe more incredible things than the mind can conceive: No Unemployment! No National Debt!Zero Inflation! And let’s not forget:Pollution-Free-Skies! School Prayer for Our Kids! Interest-free Loans for Firms on the Skids!For seniors, a Worry-free Sunset Existence!For junkies, some no-strings Withdrawal Assistance! Our streets will be Crime-Free!; our prisons Humane! It’s “Happy Days” every day from Hawaii to Maine.There’s no limit to pledges they’ll make for our votes. (A pledge is just words.They have plenty of those.) The pleas fall like raindrops and make our heads spin: “Vote OUT the bunglers!” “Keep experience IN!”It’s costly, it’s silly, this annual rite,it’s a sort of reversal of Halloween night:The candidates come ‘round with bags full of sweetsand they march up and down all the highways and streets. Disguised as “Nice Fellows” and “Dependable Joes,” proclaiming their virtues and tricking their foes.They pass out their treats, they hold out their hands, and ask us to send them to “Incumbentland”where nothing gets changed (but it’s never their fault. The vows of October just somehow ... default.)If we must cast our votes (and I suppose that we must) there is something quite basic we ought to adjust.The political calendar should be reversed:Instead of November, let’s vote April First.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who allows politicians to shake his hand ... occasionally.)Sis, boom, Bach? Bah!I can survive without football ... I guess.I can learn to play mah jong, or bocci or chess. I can visit museums and root for Monet.There’s a lot I can do if the players won’t play.I can shout at the traffic and yell at the trees.I can measure my cellar and count all my leaves, I can sip a few beers as I watch a ballet.There’s a lot I can do on a crisp Autumn day.I can read the stock listings, the tide tables too. (There are other statistics to ponder and chew.) I can get up a pool in the office each week where we bet on elections in, say, Mozambique.Who needs the Eagles, the Giants or Jets?Who needs the Bradshaws,Vermiels or Dorsetts? Where is it written that football is vital?That a field goal means more than a woodwind recital? That Landry’s more complex than Bach or Bizet?Or that life’s only Truth is an instant replay?It’s only a game after all. I repeat:I’ll survive, I’ll endure ... For at least one more week.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who reads the sports pages ... occasionally.)It’s purrfectly clear who’s bossMy cat’s existential – it’s etched on his face. He’s a real Jean Paul Sartre of the animal race. He’s aloof and world-weary, eternally bored. If I try to amuse him, I’m rudely ignored.At breakfast he paces and frowns up at me, then he sniffs at his dish like a smug maitre d’. He’s arrogant, callous, self-centered, ungracious. To call him a “pet” is absurd and fallacious.He answers to no one, but suffers us all so long as we follow his strict protocol:–	No petting, no rough stuff; no cheap tuna fish or bargain-brand dry foods in his little dish.–	No bells for his neck; no trips to the vet.–	No fuss about hairs on the bed’s coverlet.–	The dog and the children must all stay away when he muses or naps on a warm sunny day.–	When he wants to go out, we must rush to the door.–	If we want him inside, we must plead and implore.–	The living room sofa is first and foremost not a thing to be sat on, it’s his scratching post.If we stick to his rules, he’ll allow us to stay. Sure he’s rude, but he’s fair in a cat sort of way. He’s trained us to answer his least call and beck, but at times I could strangle his fat, furry ...(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who resists an impulse to kick his cat ... occasionally.)Stuff not lest ye be stuffedNothing’s as dumb as a fish out of waterattached to the hands of a ‘sportsman’ who oughter feel silly as hell as he stands there and poseswhile folks all around him are holding their noses.‘Man With Dead Fish’ the caption should say. Or: ‘Ventriloquist Tries Out New Partner Today.’The head of a deer that’s attached to a wall is utterly useless, unless you can callit an Art Form of sorts: “Decapitate Chic”or “Nature De-Natured” or “Hides-And-Go-Seek.”Fish ought to swim as long as they’re able, or wind up as dinner on somebody’s table.And a deer who has antlers that stretch out like should not have to use them to hold someone’s hat.A grizzly that’s growl-less and stuffed up with cotton is a sad, silent symbol of all we’ve forgottento cherish and treasure, to save and protect. (Natural Selection doesn’t mean we select.)Creatures aren’t trophies; no matter what sizes; species un-stuffed are Nature’s own prizes.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who worries about the social implications of taxidermy ... occasionally.)Sometimes even poets need a vacationThere’ll be no poem from me this week, I’m taking a vacation.I’m under stress, I need a rest, I’m going to Canada.For 13 weeks, I’ve tried my best to keep the meter perfect.I’ve fractured lines and twisted rhymes,but do you think I ever got a word of encouragement from my readers or editors? Noooooo. Listen. It’s not easy to think in couplets, you know, and then you have to worry about rhyming as well! Just think about it. How many living poets can you name? It’s not a growth industry. Oh, Rod McKuen may still be writing his breathless stuff, and there’s Mark Soifer in Ocean City, but when you get right down to it, there aren’t many poets who ...(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who takes vacations ... occasionally.) Turn around, they grow, turn around, they’re goneI miss Big Bird and Kermit, too. I never see “The Captain.”My sons grew up (too fast, too soon,) these days they’re hooked on Batman.When they were small, we’d “Piggyback” and “Peekaboo” as well.We’d share a nap, and they would laugh at stories I would tell.My stories never had much plot, but they would sit spellbound.And then they’d giggle wonderfully when I made silly sounds.They couldn’t read or write, of course, or ride a big two-wheeler,they didn’t call each other “jerk” or call each other “squealer.” They didn’t groan at dinnertime or grumble over chores,they wouldn’t contradict their mom, or slam the bedroom doors.At bedtime smiles were passed around, I’d get a hug and kiss.But “Night pop” now is all I get, Or:“Can you feed my fish?”All children run a race with time, and innocence won’t keep.They grow and change and then one day they’re bored by sweet Bo Peep.It’s “Chips” or “Dukes” on TV now, and Pac-Man’s nudged out Grover; when Dad gets home it’s no big deal ... The love affair is over.These days there’s lot of space between my growing sons and me.I’m busy doing busy things; they’re busy being free.I knew this gulf would come one day, (no family is immune.)I knew we’d start to grow apart, but why’d it start so soon?(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey, writer who still does excellent imitations of Cookie Monster ... occasionally.)he sounds of silence $ll the airThe house is hushed now. Nothing stirs. A cat, to break the silence, purrs.No footsteps sound; no voices speak. The joints in the floors and ceilings creak. No telephones or doorbells ring.The only sound’s a gurgling of water in a heating tank.The TV’s mute; the screen is blank.No doors are slammed. No music’s heard. What awful thing has here occurred?Some spell, perhaps? Some evil curse that mortal man cannot reverse?Nope. Summer’s done. It’s almost fall. The kids are back in school, that’s all.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who misses the sounds of the boys of summer ... occasionally.)   A sale in summer may end up as a bummerWe ransacked the house quite thoroughly, my wife, our two sons, and even me.We prowled and poked and searched all day, collecting the “junk” that we’d all stored away: Old tools and games and records, too;cute books and clothes that the kids outgrew. Strange Christmas gifts we never used,and once-favorite toys the boys had abused.“YARD SALE THIS WEEKEND” our classified said, and visions of dollar signs danced in my head.At first it was fun, and the money poured in, but inside of an hour I felt guilty as sin.What price a memory? Who can compute the true market value of a blue sailor suit that a son wore so proudly four Easters ago?I wondered and worried, and watched our past go:–	Alphabet blocks that they once stacked in towers (when they were still toddlers and took naps for hours)–	Our first set of dishes; the drapes from the nursery–	The TV we bought for our first anniversary–	The red three-wheeled bike with the bent handlebars–	A battered collection of small Matchbox cars–	The Agatha Christies we devoured one summer ... This yard sale was making me glummer and glummer. The things we were selling were not merchandise, they were portions and pieces of all of our lives: authentic reminders of seasons we’d shared.The “customers” grumbled, the “customers” stared as I started to sneak some things back in the house. (One son caught on and he “saved” Mickey Mouse.) (The other son rescued a truck from the heap,and the yard sale turned into a family yard keep.)Well, once was enough. No more yard sales for me. I won’t put a price on our least memory.If time is a river, that “junk” is the shore,and it helps us remember what we were before.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who gets sentimental... occasionally.)hree cheers for the blobs who drive out the mobsWhy do I love the jellyfish,those amorphous, gelatinous bubbles of squish?They make people shudder and pinch up their noses,they zap foolish swimmers from their heads to their toeses. They drive joggers crazy who run by the ocean,they drive-up the prices of calamine lotion.They make lousy pets: they don’t bark, they can’t sing. They’re ugly and yukky, and then there’s the sting:it’s nasty and painful, it burns and it throbs. So why am I fond of these poisonous blobs?My reasons are selfish, I’ll have to confess,(and the Chamber of Commerce will hate me, I guess,) but I love the beaches much more than the forests, and after two months I get weary of touristswho fill up the beaches, who whine and complain about prices and parking and traffic and rain.But the jellyfish drive the complainers away and we natives all whisper: ‘hip, hip, hooray!’It’s August at last! We can smile and take heart. As the jellyfish come, so the tourists depart.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who talks to tourists ... occasionally.) In kingdom of bugs, greenheads are thugsSpeaking entomologically, bugs don’t really bother me. But Greenheads I kill without mercy.They’re the scourge of the beaches, they’re bloodsucking leeches, the Greenheads that live in South Jersey.I do not loathe the gypsy moth though it strips the forest clean.It’s graceful, it flutters, and while gardeners mutter, it’s the Greenhead who’s truly obscene.The common housefly is a shy, humble guy to whom everything reeks of delicious.He’s not clean, he’s not cute, but no one disputes that the Greenhead is clearly more vicious.Nothing is fleeter than a Jersey mosqueeter, but at least he will stick to the swamp.The Greenhead, however, is snacking forever on the beaches where I go to romp.The bumble bee, Nature mercifully has equipped with an audible hummer.But a Greenhead exploring emits no such warning as he searches for me in the summer.The roach I ignore, the ants I endure, but Greenheads I kill without mercy.The scourge of the beaches, the bloodsucking leeches, the Greenheads that live in South Jersey.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who tries to relax on the beach in Brigantine ... occasionally.) Cheap heat relief: recalling yesteryoreWhat did folks do before air was conditioned?How did they get through the summer without satellite weather maps to tell them where tropical depressions and Canadian air masses were positioned?And how did they stay coolWhen there were no Expressways to zip them to the beach and only a very rich family could afford a backyard pool?What was it like before instant iced tea?And how did people get through sizzling summer days without digital bank thermometers on street corners to tell them when the temperature went up yet another degree?Didn’t people sweat?And if they did, how did they manage not to offend anyone without benefit of 12-hour deodorant sprays that let you get through the entire day without getting embarrassingly wet?When the “good old days” were stifling,How could women survive the heat if they didn’t wear short shorts, bikinis or something equally trifling?Refrigerators that didn’t make ice automaticallymust have made life absolutely unbearable when things got hot as hell climatically.These heat waves are killers, but take it from me:It never gets so hot that you can’t sit around on a sweltering summer day and take comfort from the fact that things are much better now than they used to be.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who steps out of hisair conditioned office on hot summer days ... occasionally.)A case of ‘slot-stalgia’I love the slots.They’re time machines.Sure, the odds are awful, and you have to stand, but it makes me feel like I did when I was fifteen:Playing pinball with the guys at Wald’s Luncheonettewhere we knocked ourselves out before, between and after classes trying for every free game we could get.Golden days, they were. And cheap.Five cents a game! It wasn’t any trouble to make a dollar and a quarter allowance last all week.Buzzers! Bells! Flashing lights! And that magic “THUNK”ing sound that meant a free game and maybe another roundof old man Wald’s weak Cokes,      and another stretch of Ernie Sockolow’s awful jokes. ‘Smiling Sock’ was notorious for limericks and puns.(He’s smiling still in the part of my yearbook that acknowledged him “Class Dunce.”)When I was “up” at Wald’s – “Your turn!” – my stomach would knot.Destiny (i.e. the hopes of a half-dozen guys with limited funds) rode on my shoulders. It was definitely nota time for temerity or fear.(And it didn’t make matters easier if Terry Durocher snuggled up to me and started whispering suggestively in my ear.)If you won, you were a hero; if you made it TILT, you were a goat. (If you won too often, old man Wald just pulled the plug and hung asign up that said “BROKE”.)Those days are gone, but the lessons of my youthhave sustained me for a lifetime.The Truth I learned at Wald’s is still The Truth:“No one always wins.” “No one always loses.”“When you’re beaten, don’t get mad. Let the next guy up, and don’t waste your breath inventing dumb excuses.”I love the slots.They let me fantasizethat I’m back at Wald’s with Cosmo, Jim and Mike, Joe and Barry and all the other guys.Winning enough free games to play forever.Taking turns through eternity, squandering our allowances on the pull of a lever.And when I’m broke, when there are no quarters in my cup. I just smile, walk away and whisper: “Sockolow.You’re up.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a South Jersey writer who visits the casinos ... occasionally.)