here are some folks we could do withoutThere are folks unfit for living that I’d love to atomize. I’ve got a little list – I’ve got a little listOf contemporary villains who I’m sure we all despise,And who never would be missed – who never would be missed!There’s the skinny little fashion plate who’s always on a diet – Compulsive exercisers who insist that I should try it –And bores who tell a movie’s plot before I’ve ever seen it – And hostesses who say “Enjoy!” (but clearly do not mean it) – And automotive salesmen with a “deal you can’t resist” – They’d none of ‘em be missed – they’d none of ‘em be missed.There’s the telephone solicitors who call to take a “poll” then try to sell me magazines – I’ve got them on the list! And door-to-door evangelists who try to save my soul – They never would be missed – they never would be missed!There’s the school administrator who sends kids to peddle seeds and “helpful kitchen implements” that no one ever needs;And play-by-play announcers who neglect to give the score (but tell us what they had for lunch in town the day before); And stuffed-shirt commentators who call boxers “pugilists” – I don’t think they’d be missed – I’m sure they’d not be missed!There’s the out-of-work celebrity who turns up for some cause and pleads for our compassion while he waits for our applause; And ancient entertainers who are wheeled out for “salutes”; And handcuffed politicians dressed in three-piece business suits; And racist rabblerousers who call others prejudiced –I’m sure they won’t be missed – no way that they’ll be missed!They never go away, of course, they never disappear (these villains who are callous, vain or plainly insincere). But I don’t let them bother me. I add to them my list Of atomizer-targets who I’m sure will not be missed.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who hums Gilbert and Sullivan tunes ... occasionally.)he sins of a son will never alter a mother’s loveCain came home depressed and bloody. Eve said: “Wash your hands.”Thus was born a great tradition:Momma Understands.When Attila went a-slaying people cursed the Hun. (All except Attila’s mother.She beamed: “That’s my son!”)Nero laughed as Rome burned down (such horror brought him joy.)A million Romans called him mad, his mom sighed: “Silly boy.”Mrs.Vader loved to watch her little Darth at play.He’d torture cats with laser darts. “You clever boy,” she’d say.Even mankind’s villainshave loving moms, it seems.I guess a mother’s love is stitched in her Designer genes.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who sends big, gaudy, sentimental cards to his mother on Mother’s Day ... occasionally.)New products designed with TV fans in mindNews item: This fall, Charles of the Ritz will market “Forever Krystle” perfume, at $150 an ounce. The perfume is named after the Krystle Carrington character in the “Dynasty” TV series.There’s gold in them thar TV hills: A mother lode of names to mine!Names for toothpaste, mouthwash, soap; names for lotions, candy, wine. Mr. Spock’s Deep Space Cologne“For Somber Men Who Sleep Alone.”J.R. Ewing Aftershave“For Sneaky Men Who Misbehave.”“Aaaayh!“ Fonzie’s Acne Gel“No makeup mess, no sissy smell.”Twilight Zone Inc., Travel Guides“For those who like to be surprised.”Magnum, P.I., Hair Transplants“Bare-chested men: a second chance!”B.A. Baracus’ Driving School“You want to drive? I’ll teach you, fool!”‘Mr. Rogers’ Diet Plan“Can you say ‘No’? I’ll bet you can.”Now really.Who would ever buy a product named for a TV star?Do TV sponsors think we’re dumb? We watch their shows. I guess we are.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks Madison Avenue gets carried away ... occasionally.)Beware of writers promised giftsOn hearing that a Philadelphia newspaper columnist regularly mentions actress Pia Zadora in his column because she sometimes sends small “thank you” gifts to repay the free publicity.Pia Zadora, though critics abhor ya, condemn ya, ignore ya,dear P: I adore ya. (Though I never saw ya.) Pia Zadora.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer with questionable ethics who waits for the mail … occasionally.)Love’s labors never lost, on soapsAn update on soap opera developments for soap fans who were sidetracked by the Olympics.ALL MY CHILDRENDotty is pregnant (but Tad doesn’t know). Donna got mad and told Zack where to go. Chris got a job, and Cliff’s on TV.Jenny survived an exploding Jet Ski.AS THE WORLD TURNSDiana miscarried and Craig’s still in jail. Gunnar is dying. (We thought he looked pale.) Kim finally learned Steve is Juliet’s brother.Franny and Jay are in love with each other.GENERAL HOSPITALWill Rick marry Ginny for Mike’s psyche’s sake? Did Josh fall for Holly? Was that a mistake?Celia tricked Putnam. Does Putnam suspect? Did all of Brock’s nagging make Bobbi a wreck?ONE LIFE TO LIVEDidi and Mark have agreed to elope.Does Becky love Johnny? Becky says: “Nope.” Delilah’s still missing, but Bo’s on her trail.Is Mark an embezzler? Will he go to jail?YOUNG AND THE RESTLESSTracy hates Tim now, but Eve is still sick. Victor and Nikki re taking a trip.Cora’s passed on. (Do you think she’ll be missed?) Rick has amnesia. (Now there’s a new twist.)Gone are the Games, the crowds and the cheers. Gone are the athletes (at least for four years).Back to the soaps! Let the dramas-unfold.In the Plotline Olympics, the soaps win the gold.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders if Bo is really the father of Megan’s baby ... occasionally.)he Captain: His labor was loveNews item: After 30 years on television, the “Captain Kangaroo” show has been cancelled by CBS.He never yelled or argued, he never fought or swore.He taught us silly jokes and songs we’d never heard before.Though we grew up and grew away, the Captain never quit.But times have changed, the network says. The Captain doesn’t fit.For 30 years he loved us all, we learned to love him, too.No morning was complete without the Captain and his crew.Mr. Green Jeans (what a name!) that masterful inventor.And speechless Bunny, carrot-thief,the Captain’s slick tormentor. Dennis, Debbie, snoring clocks:they made our mornings bright.They helped us learn to start to count, to draw, to sing, to write.He entertained and taught us:“Be kind. Have fun. Create.”But times have changed, the network says. The Captain’s out of date.The Captain isn’t flashy. He isn’t animated.He doesn’t “ZAP!” or “POW!” enough. His messages are dated.TV’s just a business.And kindness doesn’t pay. Cartoons are in, the network says. The Captain is passe.The Captain really cared for kids, it wasn’t all pretend.A million one-time children knew the Captain was a friend.He “only” taught us how to laugh or how to tie a shoe.He made the world a sweeter place:our Captain Kangaroo.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who thinks CBS stands for Callous Broadcasting System ... occasionally.)Bad news on bourbon sends drinkers reelingNews items:#1 – Dora Nelson of Simpsonville, S.C., celebrated her 107th birthday last week. She credited her longevity in part to the toddy of bourbon she drinks before bed each night.#2 – A scientist in Pittsburgh has discovered female- type hormones in bourbon which may cause enlarged breasts and the loss of facial hair in heavy male drinkers.Bourbon helps you live much longer. I like it.Gin’s OK, but bourbon’s stronger. I, like it.Bourbon’s laced with estrogen? It makes a man less masculine?It swells his chest and smoothes his chin? Turns heroes into heroines?Hold the bourbon! Make mine gin. (I’ll learn to like it.)(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who will miss his mint juleps … occasionally.)A toll of those who know no toilMost workers are not athletes, they do not run or leap.They neither swim nor high-jump, they “merely” work all week.Their efforts seldom noticed, their labors seldom seen, they do not gather gloryas they plod though their routine. But there are some employees who hear a higher call:the ones who go to work and strive to do no work at all.Let’s have “No Work Olympics” for masters of the sport.The ones who steal their paychecks (I’m sure you know the sort.)– The switchboard operators who put all calls on holdso they can call their boyfriends:Now they deserve a gold.They watch the lights a-blinking, ignore the beeping tones,and curse the day that Mr. Bell invented telephones.– Those rarely seen executives from upper echelonswho lunch more than they labor:Lets give they all a bronze. They draw a hefty salary, they wear expensive clothes,but what they do to earn their pay nobody really knows.– A silver medal, surely, to that office paragon:the never-silent entrantin the small-talk marathon. It’s non-stop jokes and gossip as he makes his daily tour.From desk to desk he babbles on, a boring troubador.Tomorrow when you’re back at work just take a look around.You’ll find No Work Olympians just waiting to be crowned.The come-in-late variety the early-leavers. too.Don’t look too long, however. Someone may enter you.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who manages to writea poem at the office without interruption ... occasionally.)Powerless queen is only a pawn in pageant gameVanessa, poor Vanessa,of her crown the queen was shorn. She posed for photos. “Art,” she said. The pageant boss cried, “Porn!”Vanessa, poor Vanessa,she posed without a stitch. Her coach became a pumpkin; she made a sleaze king rich.Vanessa, poor Vanessa, her boss was furious:“Our queen can’t be exploited by anyone but us!”Vanessa, poor Vanessa, her reign’s abbreviated.The pageant boss said: “Beat it kid, a new queen’s coronated.”Vanessa, poor Vanessa, she finally came to seethe queen’s not queen of anything. She’s someone’s employee.Vanessa, poor Vanessa, the lesson’s clearly drawn:a rhinestone queen is powerless. The queen is just a pawn.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who remembers when the Miss America pageant was fun ... occasionally.)Reaganomics:Is it merely ‘positive thinking’?News items:#1 – In July, the Commerce Department reported that retail sales increased 1.6 percent and said the increase reflected consumer confidence in the future.#2 – In August, the Commerce Department reported that retail sales slumped by 0.9 percent and said the decline would help relieve pressure on the credit markets.The “Reaganomics” mystery has been solved. I finally understand what that word means:When economic figures look too grim,they filter all the numbers through .a screen.“Did unemployment drop? We said it would!It proves our economic game plan’s doing fine!” “Is unemployment up? Well that’s good news!It means the ones who worked earned overtime!”“The GNP is rising? Good for us.Our efforts at reform have been repaid.” “The GNP declined? Well, that’s OK.It could help boost our sagging foreign trade.”“Inflation’s been reduced? We said it would. It’s one more major victory we can claim.” “Inflation has increased? Or course it has. It helped the cost of living stay the same.”Housing starts can rise or fall.Who cares?What counts is what you say the numbers mean. With Reaganomics, news is always good.It’s never bad. It’s never in-between.The critics say such double-speak’s a fraud, and cynics ridicule it with their smirks.But I. for one, give credit where it’s due: Reaganomics (in it’s fashion) always works.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders how the price of gold impacts on worker productivity and tobacco subsidies ... occasionally.) Criticism? Exit, stage left! Ol’ Blue Eyes did it his wayNews item: Frank Sinatra, described by a member of the state’s Casino Control Commission as ‘an obnoxious bully’ with ‘a bloated ego’ after Sinatraintimidated a blackjack dealer, has announced he will no longer perform in New Jersey.Frankie, Frankie. pudding and pie, teased a dealer and made her cry. “Tsk, tsk,” declared a bureaucrat, “that Frankie is a spoiled brat.”‘I heard that!” Frankie said (quite miffed). “New Jersey’s not my friend!” he sniffed. “I’ll show them they can’t hurt The King! I’ll punish them. I will not sing.”Frankie. Frankie, pudding and pie, kissed the Garden State goodbye:“I will not sing another sound!You won’t have me to kick around’’ He took his flunkies, took his flacks but – like all megalomaniacs –he never noticed: no one cared. No one was sad, upset or scared.Frankie, Frankie, pudding and pie, thought respect was his to buy. He never realized, never learned:respect’s not purchased, only earned. Success, alas, swelled Frankie’s head, and so to Vegas Frankie fled.‘They let me tease and wear my crown,” said Frankie. “It’s my kind of town.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who hums “doobie, doobie doo” in the shower ... occasionally.)Every so often, everyone gets to come out a winnerFifty-one (count ‘em) 51 queens competing for a crown.Fifty-one flawless beauties descending on the town. Fifty-one sets of dresses, fifty-one makeup kits,fifty-one delegations to cheer on favorites.Fifty-one great ambitions, fifty-one secret dreams;fifty-one runners-up back home glued to TV screens.Fifty-one special talents, fifty-one bathing suits,fifty-one queens who came to town by fifty-one different routes.Fifty-one separate people, fifty-one separate lives.One day they’ll “just” be actresses. Or teachers. Doctors.Wives.But all this week they’re special. This week their lives are news. And though just one’s selected, not one of them can lose.The crown, the fame and fortune may be given to The Queen,but fifty women get to keep a portion of The Dream.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wins the MissAmerica pool at the office ... occasionally.)Mother Nature’s pollen plague makes sufferer beg for breakAn open letter to Mother Nature:Enough’s enough.You’re killing us. We’ve had it up to here!Our lives are being ravagedby your poisoned atmosphere!We sniff and sneeze throughout the night, our noses drip and run.Our throats are raw as emery boards, and life’s no longer fun.We look a mess. (And feel much worse.) Our throats and eyeballs itch.The tissue people rub their hands:we keep them fat and rich. The pill-producers love it. We make their factories hum. We munch on antihistamines until our brains are numb.It’s just because you’re lazy, and inefficient, too.You make a billion pollen grains when half of that would do.You fill the air with micro-spores:a pestilential fog.No bus exhaust is half as mean as Mother Nature’s Smog.Mom (if we can call you that), we’re all your biggest fans.We love the things you do with wind, with leaves and clouds and sands.Your waterfalls, your hurricanes, your thunderstorms are slick.But those of us with allergies just hate that pollen trick!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who suspects that Mother Nature gets kickbacks from pharmaceutical companies ... occasionally.)No picnic for teddy bears when mob warfare startsIf you go out in the woods today, you’d better go in disguise.If you go out in the woods today, you’d better just close your eyes. ‘cause every hood that ever there was is gathered there today because:today’s the day the mobsters are dumping their bodies.Mob war time is here again.The capos and their menare filling the woods with their enemies. While the bodies multiply,the cops and FBIare scratching their heads for hypotheses.If you go out in the woods today, you’d better not go alone.If you go out in the woods today, ignore every shriek and groan. ‘cause hitmen hate to be surprised when making crime more organized.Especially on the day that they’re dumping the bodies.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who hopes Smokey The Bear wears a bulletproof vest … occasionally.)he NRA kills a deadly plot by vested interestsNews item: Opposition by the National Rifle Association has forced Congress to postpone legislation banning the sale of armor-piercing bullets.The anti-hunting groups suppressed reports about the armored vestthey planned to put on ducks and deer when hunting season came this year.They hoped to spoil the hunters’ fun and rob them of their venison.Unsporting! Un-American! An evil, fiendish, commie plan.Vested moose and vested bear. Vested critters everywhere.No more stalking? No more thrill? Nothing left to maim or kill?Thank heavens for the NRA! The plot was foiled. Let us prey.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who worries about threats to his right to bear armor piercing bullets ... occasionally.)Are the Cubs harbingers of miracles?Things that are certain to happen if the Chicago Cubs win the World Series:All acid rain will disappear. Fritz Mondale will beat Reagan.The PLO will plant a tree to honor Mr. Begin.Hugh Hefner will turn feminist. Bob Guccione will, too.Steve Canton will grant The Press a lengthy interview.The I.R.A. will bomb no more. All interest rates will fall.Sinatra will apologizeand play Convention Hall.A law will pass for prayer in school. (The courts will say “Amen.”)Bert Parks will be rehired and sing “There She Is” again.All Congressmen will work year-round (including holidays.)All teachers will get bonuses, and I will get a raise.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who roots for the Philadelphia Cubs ... occasionally.)Sharing warmth with home menagerie leads to long winter night of no sleepOur blanket is electrified. I hate it.It keeps us warm and snug inside. I hate it.As winter sneaks in by degrees our blanket lures more refugees.They’re drawn like moths to where-it’s-warm. They slither in: the nightly swarm.By dawn it’s crowded as a bus:Two kids, two cats, the dog and us.It’s hard to get a good night’s sleep with all those paws and arms and feet.And, frankly, I am mystifiedhow they all wind up on my side! I hope G.E. is satisfied.I hate it.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wishes he had a king-size bed … occasionally.) A reason to fear on the darkestnight of the yearA (true) Halloween horror story:The streets are filled with spooky things: small ghoulsand devils reveling; a 4-foot clown a skinny bat,a chubby witch with a rubber rat. And then there are the ghosts unseen the ones who hide on Halloween.They lurk in shadows, dark and deep.They do not move or make a peep.They lock their doors, they draw their shades.They peek through curtained barricades. They shudder when a doorbell rings.They flinchat tiny hammerings.They hide(in self-made quarantine). They bought no treats for Halloween!(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who forgets to stock up on candy in October ... occasionally.)Paths of man may lead to a cosmic graveNews item: A firm of undertakers in England is opening a register for people who would like to have their ashes scattered in space when a flight becomes available.Twinkle, twinkle, Uncle Dave, how I wonder at your grave Far beyond the stratosphere,but not above OUR hemisphereThe funeral rocket dumped too soon. You orbit now above Rangoon.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who contemplates the best-laid plans of mice and English undertakers ... occasionally.)Which spot remover do we elect to use?I think we’ll miss those campaign ads:the flapping flags, the pretty scenes, the redwhiteblue-striped images that marched across our TV screens. We’ll miss those 30-second “chats”we had each night with Ron and Fritz. We’d listen while they’d talk of war, of peace and massive deficits.They’d share their views on tax reform and complex budget balancings.They’d smile and ask us for our help. They let us feel a part of things.But just like that, the campaign ends. The votes are in, we know who won. No campaign ads will air tonight.Not any. Not a single one.It’s back to spots for “Dynasty,” for Burger King, G.E. and “Alice.”Instead of stirring, thoughtful pleas,it’s ads for beer and scenes from “Dallas.” We cannot vote for soup or trucks,for brewers or perfumers. Alas, my fellow citizens,once more, we’re just consumers.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders what kinds of TV spots Thomas Jefferson would have run ... occasionally.)A day off turns into an off-dayOn Mondays I indulgent lie all warm and cozy in my bed. “It’s my day off,” I tell myself,then stack the pillows for my head. My wife at work, my kids in school, I settle in with books and tea:A pampered prince at 9 a.m., awash in slothful luxury.As others start their weekly grinds, I start to drift and dream a bit.No thoughts of work or chores to do, my torpor deep and exquisite.The furnace hums a neutral tune:seductive, numbing, slumberous ... “Hey, Dad! Wake up! I need a ride!” My 9-year-old. He missed the bus.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wishes he had Saturday and Sunday off like “normal” people ... occasionally.)Holiday leaves an ‘aftertaste’Thanksgiving lasted seven days.I’ll BURP! (excuse me) count the ways:–	broiled turkey en brochette–	turkey burger (flat croquette)–	turkey breast on rye for lunch–	creamed turkey bits on toast for brunch–	drumstick night (Thanksgiving II)–	a crock pot full of turkey stewOur wishbone wish: “No turkey meat!” (The gobble’s all we didn’t eat.)At turkey hash, we drew the line. The cats, however, liked it fine.Tonight, a feast: baked beans and franks. The turkey’s finished. Phew! Give thanks.(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wishes the pilgrims had gone to a Chinese restaurant for Thanksgiving ... occasionally.)Doggedly true, this old friendShe’d never win a ribbon, (she’d probably misbehave). She’d never sit or walk on cue (that’s conduct for a slave).Her pedigree is dubious.Her breed is “mixed” at best. She found us at the shelter. (We were lost without a pet.)She suffered through two toddlers, made peace with several cats, adjusted when we moved (both times) to new, strange habitats.Her conduct was exemplary, she’d bark but never bite.She’d guard my house and family when I worked late at night.She never asked for anything, affection was her wages.On mornings when we’d take a run her tail would sing my praises.So many days she spent alone without our company,she’d sit and nap, her sonar tuned to hear a front door key.And yes, it’s true, she sheds a bit, she brings in ticks and fleas,and lately she disturbs our sleep when she begins to wheeze.Her coat’s a trifle ratty now, there’s gray around her eyes.And though she has more “accidents,” her eyes apologize.She doesn’t know what’s happening, but, sadly, we all do.She doesn’t want to play as much, or munch a rawhide chew.She tires much more easily,and barks when nothing’s there. And, sometimes, she will stumble when she’s going up the stairs.Nothing lives forever, as every child knows.And one day Taffy won’t be there to greet me. I suppose.She cannot guess the future. She’s lucky, in that way.She never has to look at us and see how we have aged.I watch her as she sighs in sleep:What dreams! What memories! Fetching sticks for little boys Barking squirrels up trees“Relax old girl, go back to sleep. Don’t worry. It’s all right.I’m writing. I’ll be up a while. I’ll guard the house tonight.”(J.D. Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey writer who wonders why animals put up with us ... occasionally.)A great escape requires logic to take a break“You were obsessed with finding a killer who was posing as you so that an enraged taipan would return your wife to you – a man whose own wife had supposedly been murdered by the assassin who called himself Jason Bourne.” – excerpt from “The Bourne Supremacy” by Robert Ludlum.When reading thrillers one should not expect too much or ask a lotof authors who get paid to write the books that keep us up all night.Those tales of spies and counterspies are not Great Art, you realize.The plot lines twist and overlap, and logic’s thread’s the first to snap. The Ludlums and the Folletts say:“If you want Art, read Hemingway. The stuff we write is pure escape:assassins, murder, terror, rape,and presidents who’ve been deceived. It isn’t meant to be believed.”Triple agents? Housewife-spies? Aging Nazis in disguise?Boy Scouts tracking Kung-fu killers? Nothing is too strange for thrillers. The unreal plots are strange enough, what baffles me: I read this stuff!(J.D Evans, a pseudonym, is a New Jersey Writer who wouldn’t mind working for the CIA on weekends ... occasionally.)